March 27, 2024, 12:07PM
49m 39s
 
Researcher started transcription
 
Researcher   0:16 
:psstAnd we'll start with some backgrounds into the questions. 
So question #1 is, what is your role in the company? Could you briefly describe your 
role please?
 
Interviewee   0:28 
My role is security consultant. I'm working for business units from a central 
organisational point of view of [company]. I'm supporting business units within 
[company] with their security processes, in part with a particular focus on products that 
are subsequently sold to external customers.
 
Researcher   0:52 
Thank you. How many years of experience did you collect over your professional 
career in your current position and in the previous stations?
 
Interviewee   0:59 
Uh. 
I've been with [company] for eight years now in my current position, I'm. 
Working in a similar domain for four years now as an [company] employee. 
Formerly more focused on [company] internal services, the last four years more focus 
on [company] products.
 
Researcher   1:25 
Perfect. Thank you. Did you have any experience training or education machine 
learning security or adversary machine learning?
 
Interviewee   1:35 
Raining, except for university studies, where this was a course back then, no 
additional trainings.
 
Researcher   1:44 
OK, perfect. Thank you. 
And this was. 
The the pre questions regarding your backgrounds. Thank you so much for 
answering that. Now we're gonna go over to the main interview questions. 
So could you briefly explain your understanding of the terms machine learning and 
security, a dealing with an example please?
 
Interviewee   2:10 
And machine learning is to me the logical consequence of a mathematical statistics 
where. 
Certain. 
Where data is used to identify patterns. 
Or certain. Yeah. Logical consequences once again, and to derive new information 
from given data. 
In that case, probably. 
At this point in time, mostly used is the term. 
Artificial intelligence. Nowadays a lot connected also to large language models once 
again. So I think a lot of these terms are mixed up with each other. 
Most famous in that case probably would be jet gpti guess. 
Security wise, security is the. 
Protection of or the insurance of certain protection goals of a product. 
System service or solution? 
Also, mostly defined by confidentiality, integrity and availability. 
Includes the measures, but also to protect a certain product, but also processes for 
the entire life cycle of these products in order to, in the end, achieve a product that 
fulfils our initially designed properties.
 
Researcher   3:39 
Was the textbook answer and.
 
Interviewee   3:42 
OK.
 
Researcher   3:43 
That's that's really nice. So this question is not. 
The main purpose of this question is not to Chris you in any way, but just like to see 
if we are on the on the same page regarding the terminologies. So thank you for 
that. 
Could you explain your understanding of machine learning security, ideally with an 
example please?
 
Interviewee   4:05 
Machine learning security. 
Is actually. 
Terminology wise a bit hard for me 'cause there is a differentiation 'cause you have 
machine learning for security and you have some machine learning security of 
machine learning I suppose and interpret that you're talking about security for 
machine learning. So talking about products, services or solutions that utilise 
machine learning to achieve certain goals and the insurance of a secure behaviour of 
this component or entire product. 
Yeah. In the context of security. So once again, certain properties like confidentiality, 
integrity and availability for machine learning, this might even be extended to 
additional. 
Properties depending on the use case.
 
Researcher   4:57 
Thanks. Thank you. 
Which security goals are announced by your company's management regarding 
machine learning?
 
Interviewee   5:07 
And there is no dedicated security goals announced just for machine learning. We 
have general security goals that should be achieved for all products, which is and 
also transparent. And once again confidentiality, integrity and availability. 
In addition, there are certain sub properties which can be achieved by all of that, 
including for example, trustworthiness, reliability. 
Aspects like non reputation. 
Non replayability and so on authenticity, obviously. So a lot of additional ones for 
machine learning in particular. 
There are no additional security goals mentioned at this point in time.
 
Researcher   5:59 
Alright, so the next question would have been how does your organisation support 
machine learning security so. 
Yeah. So I think we're going to skip that. 
Since you explained that we have that you have a rather. 
Generic approach towards security, unless you derive already. 
Some machine learning security properties that were part or are part in the product 
development.
 
Interviewee   6:30 
What there is for machine learning, in particular a guidance is on how to treat 
machine learning, AI and so on in particular, and this for example covers. 
Threat scenarios which are exclusively applicable to machine learning. 
Systems, or particularly important for these type of systems.
 
Researcher   6:56 
But that's actually almost a perfect bridge to the next question. 
So Malcolm's a short explanation from my side because we are looking at software 
intensive products and services and this term follows looks at software systems that 
fulfil the following requirements. So one it is large and complex. 
It's subject to numerous engineering practises and the software system of that kind is 
placed in a dynamic environment. A lot of users, a lot of. 
Requirements and and regulations that the system is subject to. So one example for 
such a system is for example a Spotify app. Any sort of industrial controller. 
And not a software intensive product or system is a toy example you would use in a 
study and to lab experiments on it. So that is not a software that's a problem system. 
In short, sips right question #7. 
Why do you consider security aspects of machine learning components in your sips? 
For example, during your last project?
 
Interviewee   8:17 
Why or how? 
Oh, OK. 
Traditionally you have. 
Certain requirements that apply to all products, regardless of where or what 
particular lead the product does. There are certain things that must be ensured for all 
products to ensure on the side of the producer in this case, namely [company]. 
To to to ensure certain properties there. 
Also, to achieve trust, achieve transparency and so on towards the the outside world. 
And therefore there are certain practises that apply to all products to achieve a 
certain level of of quality. And however, there are domains where. 
Which are rather new or have been recently. 
Developed have have recently gained a lot of attention. 
And therefore will be part of. 
New new products with [company] trying to be as innovative as possible for their 
customer once again. 
There is a necessity to ensure that we also have the expertise for novel technologies 
and therefore there are certain criteria that must be applied whenever novel 
technology is used. This was. 
I don't know ten years ago that was the topic of cloud. 
Nowadays it's a lot the topic around. 
Large language models, AI, machine learning and so on, and big data was another 
big and important topic. And whenever you encounter such a topic and even 
experienced developers with with dozens of of of years of experience. 
And might have not the necessary experience to securely deal with these 
technologies. 
And therefore, experts are required to guide these developers in their day-to-day 
work and in their practise. 
With well additional guidance on how to securely manage that and for these type of 
products and projects. 
We have experts that focus on researching and also focus on. 
Supporting the product development. 
Therefore, this is the reason why also, whenever we're dealing with novel 
technologies, there is a an expert for that topic. And with respect to security as well 
and to ensure that the same level of quality can be delivered by [company].
 
Researcher   11:16 
Thank you and. 
What kind of machine learning models are applied in your systems?
 
Interviewee   11:26 
Actually I can't tell you that precisely. 
Cause machine learning is used at many different areas. Obviously [company] is a a 
major enterprise has areas healthcare. 
Digital industry, mobility and so on. So there are a lot of different models applied 
and I can only tell you about the models that we have been recently using and that 
is.
 
Researcher   11:47 
Hmm. 
OK.
 
Interviewee   11:55 
Mostly the area of of. 
Generative AI. So this is something that's used a lot.
 
Researcher   12:01 
OK.
 
Interviewee   12:05 
Nowadays I would say.
 
Researcher   12:06 
Mm hmm. OK, perfect. So I mean, I wanted to to specify the the question a little bit 
what you work with, what or what your last project involved in in that matter. But 
since you already answered, it's generated AII understand. OK. Perfect. Thank you 
and. 
Next question is. 
What? What role does the security of your machine model machine learning models 
play for the overall security in your systems?
 
Interviewee   12:38 
There is traditionally a change also going through [company] affecting this particular 
aspect. And when we look at the product security life cycle of products within 
[company], there are two central steps that are important for all components that are 
used. That is first of all, a proper selection of supplier and third party components. So 
the step before you even or the Step 4 selecting a certain component and deciding 
in favour of that component. 
And subsequently the management of this component, including for example 
vulnerability management, patch management and so on. So before we select 
something and while we use it and these two processes mainly exist and also affect 
machine learning components as they are often treated as an component of a bigger 
system or providing certain services to an entire product so. 
Rarely, a product consists exclusively of machine learning, but there are other 
components, including for example, web interfaces or dashboards having data 
storage and so on. So the machine learning component itself is just one component 
of many of a typical product that we have, and. However, there is also a change in. 
So traditionally, how was that treated? 
And well, it's a third party component. We need to ensure that it's securely 
developed. It has fulfils our security demands and and also the results it produces are 
we are trustworthy at this point and however. 
More and more products are actually consisting mainly of machine learning 
components or where the main component is machine learning and everything 
around it just supports this process. 
In these cases, a deeper look is a required cause. The machine learning itself, and it's 
tweaking.
 
Researcher   14:38 
Mm hmm.
 
Interviewee   14:46 
Might be the product itself and this for also, for example the intellectual property.
 
Researcher   14:53 
Hmm.
 
Interviewee   14:53 
In this is something which is currently a lot discussed and how to deal with these 
systems that are not only.
 
Researcher   14:59 
Yeah.
 
Interviewee   15:02 
Where machine learning is not only part of the product but is the product itself.
 
Researcher   15:09 
That's perfect. Thank you. 
And next question, so a little bit of context for you. We are looking here. It's two 
scenarios. Scenario one is if machine learning integration or a component is already 
implemented into the system. 
And then scenario 2 is that a machine learning component is planned to be included 
within industrial software system or sips. As I explained earlier. 
And question #10 builds upon that context. 
Which is what is the difference in security aspect assessment of already implemented 
machine learning? 
Topware systems and a plant machine learning integration into industrial software 
system.
 
Interviewee   16:03 
OK. And once a pack once again a little bit of background traditionally. 
We do not encounter systems that are have suddenly machine learning 
implemented, but if you develop a product, there is a certain process that has to be 
followed like any other company has secure development process and. 
Therefore, the knowledge that the product will. 
And half machine learning or we'll have a machine learning component is already. 
Discussed before, it is even implemented and therefore also the security of these 
components are considered before they are implemented. 
Therefore, the case that a component that we encounter something we have a 
product and for whatever reason, we suddenly have machine learning in there does 
not exist. So my interpretation. 
Just as an explanation differs and that far. 
First of all, we in our process typically before we even add machine learning and have 
it planned, we do a regular assessment of that component, which means we look into 
the supplier over the model and the component itself ensure the security properties 
of these components. Then it is implemented. 
And traditionally, after it is implemented and we need to have a look again for 
verification and validation and validation. 
And integration tests for example. 
And for these things also again, multiple activities are conducted including. 
Threat and risk analysis. Penetration tests. If you go into the practical direction and 
so on. So a lot of subsequent theoretical and practical testing and risk assessments.
 
Researcher   17:53 
Mm. 
Mm hmm, maybe one follow up questions to to to that.
 
Interviewee   18:03 
Yes.
 
Researcher   18:06 
Did you experience already some add on steps regarding machine learning 
components during the assessment of? 
Of of the security of software that includes machinery, components and CMOS.
 
Interviewee   18:25 
But the question again, does that affect the 1st or the 2nd step? 
So before it was implemented, or if it's already implemented, which which of the two 
assessments are you referring to?
 
Researcher   18:37 
Now. Now. OK, I I need to to clarify that. OK. So we are looking at the, the, the plant 
machine learning integration.
 
Interviewee   18:47 
And obviously this highly depends on the components and you cannot assess a 
database for the same criteria. You would assess a file storage or you would assess, I 
don't know, a Python library that's not working out. Therefore also machine learning 
component is treated differently and with respect to the technology because, well, 
the the protection of certain goals or the protection of of security properties just 
differentiates from. 
For machine learning. 
In this case, once again, so yes, the assessment itself for or against selecting a certain 
machine learning component differentiates from other from the assessment of other 
components.
 
Researcher   19:35 
Mm hmm. 
And did you? Sorry again another follow up question because I'm I'm curious since.
 
Interviewee   19:42 
With pleasure.
 
Researcher   19:44 
Since we have also. 
Certain evolution probably of risk assessment towards machine learning models, 
because more and more threats are coming into into play and are discovered so. 
So did you realise that there are more specific questions or assessment steps that are 
needed which were then reapplied to already implemented machine? So or to to 
systems that already implemented machine learning components so that there was a 
reassessment needed?
 
Interviewee   20:24 
And actually there is it's it's, it's. 
This is maybe not the case as you would expect it cause within the life cycle you 
have, you always have regular reassessments of the products just because the the the 
threat changes. So you have different attackers of different threat landscape and so 
on. So a regular reassessment of your product. 
Is absolutely crucial, regardless of whether it has a machine learning component or 
not. But if there is in subsequent talking about continuous development and if it is 
decided that there is an ad on of machine learning of machine learning component 
needed and it shall be implemented, it's also considered in the risk assessment. 
With a particular set of questions or remarks to this specific component. 
So I would suggest, yes, that's indeed the case, but typically it's already part of the 
regular life cycle 'cause if I continue the development and change something, I need 
to reassess. If there is a certain time if a certain time has passed, I need to reassess 
just because the world is changing. And so we as security have to.
 
Researcher   21:24 
Mm. 
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Perfect. Because the the last question would then be 
irrelevant to asks. And based on this, this answer of yours, OK, now we're gonna 
jump a little bit deeper into the risk assessment and. 
I'll start with how relevant was the familiarity with machine learning, security and the 
domain system under consideration before conducting risk assessment of software 
system that includes a machine learning component. In your last project.
 
Interviewee   22:21 
So, to rephrase it to the importance that somebody is familiar or is familiar with the 
technology itself, in order to do a risk assessment on the technology.
 
Researcher   22:33 
Exactly.
 
Interviewee   22:35 
OK, in this case answer once again. 
As security experts, it's hard to be a an expert in every domain, so as part of the risk 
assessment, you always have experts for the respective technology. 
This implies that you, as a security person, are not the only one sitting in a room and 
doing a risk assessment, but you have a group full of technical experts, business 
representatives, and so on. 
And contributing to a risk assessment, and therefore you also typically have experts 
in the technology there, however. 
I would. 
I would say that at a certain level of of knowledge about a technology, highly 
benefits. 
The assessment process 'cause you get a feeling about? 
Typical problems, typical issues that can be encountered and know where the weak 
spots of such a system is. So my answer to that question would be I see a certain 
level of importance.
 
Researcher   23:41 
Mm hmm.
 
Interviewee   23:48 
But I don't consider it crucial that you're an expert in the technology. In order to do 
it, risk assessment as security representative or responsible.
 
Researcher   23:58 
OK, so you already answered the the the next question which was which row? No, no, 
no, no, no, no, it's it's really perfect because I mean my questions are not not not 
perfect at all. So but it's it's really good that you talk talk a lot because that's the idea 
of the interview as many information as possible because you were already referring 
to to roles. I I'm wondering how those roles interact in during the the risk 
assessment. Are they already part of the development, is it?
 
Interviewee   24:03 
I'm talking too much. I see.
 
Researcher   24:32 
Again. 
Part of the of the life cycle and how do Dallas roles interact?
 
Interviewee   24:40 
In a development project for a product or particular product with with a lot of 
software in it and a lot of different roles, continuously collaborate as major roles, I 
would see technical experts. Or when when we're talking about a security point of 
view and you obviously have have experts from from a security domain and they are 
experts on different levels. So you might be an expert for security in general and 
have no clue about. 
Or might be an expert for risk management and have no clue about the technology 
itself. On the other hand.
 
Researcher   25:16 
Hmm.
 
Interviewee   25:16 
You might be a security expert for certain technology, I don't know certain 
programming language for example, but have not the slightest clue about risk 
management. So when we're talking about roles, these collaborate all the time. I I 
would say. However, for certain activities in the life cycle you might need experts for 
that particular. 
For that particular expertise, especially if you have a non experienced group. 
What I see a lot is that. 
Especially when you're trying to to to to, to build excellence in developers and and 
try to try to build them up yourselves and teach them. And you typically need to 
support them security wise.
 
Researcher   26:08 
Uh huh.
 
Interviewee   26:08 
By somebody that can guide them that can help them and and well support them in 
general. So what I would would say is. 
And most of these roles regularly collaborate and some roles only collaborate on 
certain activities. 
And when we're talking about business representatives, these rules mainly 
collaborate during activities where business relevant decisions have to be taken. So 
can a risk be accepted or not? What is the impact of a certain attack scenario for the 
business? 
And how? 
How can certain investments be conducted in these cases? The business must be 
included. 
For a day-to-day work, when we're talking really about product development and 
hands on development, I would rather see technical security experts for the 
respective domain and practitioners. So architects, developers. 
Project managers and so on, collaborating with each other.
 
Researcher   27:19 
OK, sounds like a lot of a lot of communication, but I think that's that's key. 
The the next part is how how did you document the risk assessment results in, for 
example, your your last project? How?
 
Interviewee   27:40 
There are two, so there are multiple techniques that can be used and it has to 
differentiate in the preference of the participants. So there are. 
Localised tools in particular sheets, so so excel sheets that can be used for the risk 
assessment and there is also. 
A system, an application that can be used for the risk assessment. 
So if you can theoretically also do them on. 
On white boards and then subsequently document them accordingly. So it it highly 
depends on what you prefer to use. In the end it is represented by. 
The remaining risk, accompanied by the documentation you decided for. 
Because somebody's taking the risk, typically a business representative and the way 
they. 
Need to track their risk as part of the project risk management or even enterprise risk 
management depends on them, so it's it's not possible to say there is only one way. 
The preferred way is the Excel sheet because most people are familiar with it. 
And it's extremely simple tissues, because it's quite straightforward on how to do 
that. 
But there are many approaches on how to document these things. 
In place and also used.
 
Researcher   29:13 
Mm hmm. Perfect. Thank you. 
So the the next block goes a little bit deeper into into the risk assessments and I 
think you're the perfect candidate to talk about it. 
So which which system modelling types are applied to conduct risk assessment of 
machine learning based industrial systems? 
So.
 
Interviewee   29:43 
Could you give an example? What do you mean by that?
 
Researcher   29:46 
For example, do you use? 
Data flow diagrams, for example, in order to conduct the as as a as a foundation for 
the next risk or threat modelling. 
Threat modelling steps.
 
Interviewee   30:03 
Typically what is done is. 
A separation of the entire system into assets, so all data, all core functionalities of the 
system. 
And those are collected usage of discussion about the subsequent environment 
where the product will be used. So a potential environmental threats that can occur.
 
Researcher   30:32 
Mm hmm.
 
Interviewee   30:32 
A separation between data flow diagrams. 
And also in general network diagrams. So network overview, system overviews, all of 
that are used and also component diagrams and strategy wise the main focus are 
component diagrams. 
Because this is structural wise, you would look at components and think about how. 
This particular component could infringe the protection goal, that is. 
Associated with a certain asset within the application which can once again be data 
can be. 
Functionality. Whatever.
 
Researcher   31:21 
K So you already answered answered some question B, which is about the 
perspective view. Usually selective is system attack or asset centric. So based on your 
previous answer, I presume it is asset centric usually or are the exceptions.
 
Interviewee   31:39 
I would rather I would rather say it is asset centric, yes.
 
Researcher   31:42 
Mm hmm. 
Perfect, which which methodologies are you using during the the the risk 
assessment? Is it? 
Is it striped pasta Tara or something completely different? A mix of all of them or?
 
Interviewee   31:59 
It's it's a [company] mix, no, [company] has a dedicated technology for or dedicated 
strategy for the risk assessment, which as far as I know has also already been 
published in on an international conference. So I think it's not not a big secret and 
you can find out about it. It's threatened risk analysis.
 
Researcher   32:18 
Yeah. 
OK, perfect. 
Alright. 
But during during the threat modelling session assessment. 
Did you apply any curated tech repositories such as Atlas? My trip for example?
 
Interviewee   32:43 
And what you use as part of the threat and risk analysis is a catalogue of questions. 
Or which might support you in your work and in these cases attack vectors, attack 
scenarios, catalogues and so on are already included so traditionally. 
Everything you get from ovest what you get from NIST and so on is already curated 
into this one. 
Questionnaire, which tries to focus or tries to support moderators and experts during 
the threat and risk analysis in order to identify and potential attack vectors. 
So there is a guidance which however summarises a lot of them, which one exactly 
are included. I would need to look up because the list is quite long.
 
Researcher   33:40 
Oh, no worries. So just for for protocol and documentation reasons, you already 
answered some question E with. 
How often do you see the needs to conduct threats modelling risk assessment for 
machine learning based software system and and why? I mean, based on the the 
security life cycle, you'd prefer the continuous because it's part of your. 
Your company culture.
 
Interviewee   34:10 
Yeah.
 
Researcher   34:10 
Right. 
Then. 
The next question, and we'll almost almost at the end. 
Which challenges occur during threat modelling or risk assessment of machine 
learning based industrial systems?
 
Interviewee   34:32 
Actually I would. 
I would suppose one of the biggest challenges is the lack of transparency, how the 
models really work and a lot of knowledge that is interconnected to that. Because I'm 
talking for using, for example, a web application. Also a lot of business 
representatives which subsequently defined the impact of certain attack vectors. 
Are quite aware of the attacks because everybody knows about that. 
If if some website has been hacked, that's all around the media. However, with 
machine learning models, it's rather hard to get everybody on the same page 
knowledge wise. 
Because this, this, this results in these type of risk assessments taking a lot of time. 
Because a common knowledge is necessary across all participants, as otherwise you 
either might get incorrect data. 
And non reliable data. 
A lack of transparency. 
Potentially people not being able to contribute at all as they feel lost in the entire 
process and so to me, the biggest challenge right now is the challenge that you I I 
would suppose this is a lack of experience honestly. But I would suppose most 
people have with new technologies due to the fact that. 
They just are not. 
They just don't know exactly what the technology's doing, how the technology is 
doing it and so on. So they lack the experience with that. And to me that's similar 
with machine learning.
 
Researcher   36:23 
Mm hmm. I see. Yeah. So you would say that the main difference of? 
Non machine learning based and machine learning based software systems is the 
familiarity with the technology probably.
 
Interviewee   36:36 
I I would say that this is actually the biggest challenge, yes.
 
Researcher   36:36 
OK. 
How do you select the appropriate defence mechanisms to protect machine learning 
based doctor systems based on your threats modelling or risk assessment results?
 
Interviewee   36:56 
And so. 
Basically, one of the results you get from our risk assessment is a definition of risk 
based on traditionally likelihood and impact. While likelihood is once again divided 
into exploitability and exposure. So the definition of enterprise risk management 
according to ISO. 
And in these cases. 
You try to reduce one of the three factors impact typically quite hard to reduce. 
Of an attack vector. So you looked either at exposure or exploitability, so ensuring 
that the respective attack. 
Cannot be conducted by everybody, therefore reducing the exposure or increasing 
the complexity of the of exploiting in that respective attack. In best case it would be 
possible to avoid the attack entirely, which is also. 
Often the case that with with some some I wouldn't say refactoring, but some some 
different design decisions. These attacks can be entirely avoided. 
But. 
In most cases you try to affect the exploitability, therefore the. 
The effort that's necessary to conduct the attack and and to to actually trigger the 
threat scenario.
 
Researcher   38:31 
Mm hmm a a follow up question to that. 
Out of curiosity. 
When? 
You expose a threats and you need a mitigation technique for it. Do you decide to 
go for a code based solution or rather for a design based solution?
 
Interviewee   38:56 
That depends on what is possible. Traditionally, if there is a change in configuration 
or code that can be applied. Obviously this is the first choice 'cause this is effort wise, 
extremely simple. However, if certain design flaws are existent which result in a list of 
threats or list of risks in these cases we typically. 
Decide for a design based mitigation because it's just the impact is bigger. It's it's 
basically a differentiation. What brings you the biggest bang for your buck. If it's just 
one thread you need to solve and it's done with few lines of code, why not use that 
approach? Everything else would would waste resources and if we notice that the 
issue is something on a deeper level and actually is due to design choices, then 
obviously.
 
Researcher   39:36 
Mm hmm. 
Mm.
 
Interviewee   39:54 
Design refactoring is necessary.
 
Researcher   39:59 
So. 
Also another follow up question because that's that's an interesting and I was 
wondering if you faced that decision already. 
But machine learning, most companies are very focused on on the performance so 
that it performs well and. 
To some degree, there are code based solutions that, for example to protect machine 
learning models against adversarial examples. 
And that's involves adversarial training for example and where you feed the machine 
learning model with. With that serial examples, but that it is not prone to those 
examples anymore. However, that reduces many times the performance of the 
model. Did you occur? Have you faced that kind of decision where you then said OK, 
the code based solution is is not not possible then we go for the design based 
solution.
 
Interviewee   41:01 
And exactly this answer or this scenario I never encountered, so vaccinating my 
machine learning was nothing we we ever thought about or ever had the issue 
behind it. However, in general what you refer to is just a balancing act between 
business schools and security at this point in time. So it depends in the end. 
And how important the performance. 
Of the system is and to answer that at some points, yes, the impact on the final 
product of a simple solution would be that significant that a design based solution 
was taken and some additional defence and depth mechanisms have been applied 
which have been security wise more of an effort but contributed more to the 
business goals. So answer is yes, we had that, but not in particular with that scenario.
 
Researcher   42:03 
Mm hmm. OK, interesting. Thank you. 
Oh. 
Which additional procedures have to be implemented after the initial security 
evaluation of the plant ML integration in your company before the machine before 
the plant machine learning integration was executed?
 
Interviewee   42:29 
So you mean between assessing the model and integrating it?
 
Researcher   42:34 
Yes, if there so for example, you were planning to integrate a machine learning 
component into a software system and then you realise there are certain threats that 
can occur and you are countering those threats with additional measurements or 
procedures that need to be introduced to to the security life cycle for example or 
additional measurements need to be done like for example set up of a monitoring 
tool for the machine learning model.
 
Interviewee   42:49 
Mm.
 
Researcher   43:07 
Or et cetera.
 
Interviewee   43:09 
Technicolour or process requirements in that case that depends on the product itself 
and its current state and the life cycle. When you're looking at a project 
management, you have different phases that that that exists and it depends on 
whether I'm implementing machine learning. 
The component into a product that has already been released and it's just an add on 
to something that's already existent or whether I'm still in the development phase of 
that respective product and it's just. 
Something I I I add during development and it's just part potentially of a first 
released or a beta version or something like that. And in the end, if we're talking 
about adding these machine learning models, obviously all. 
Or. 
Nope, that would be actually incorrect. I I was just saying that all technical and 
process measures must be in place before that can be done. That's not the case 
before the model the the machine learning model can be implemented, but that's 
not the case at there are certain circumstances where it might actually be the case 
that part of the mitigations or parts of the measures that. 
Should mitigate the risks that are introduced by the machine learning models are. 
Introduced after the machine learning model due to project management decisions. 
For example, for example, I don't know monitoring solution should anyway be in 
place and but but this is intended for a later stage, therefore also the monitoring 
solution for the machine learning model itself is introduced in the later stage, but 
normally. 
The measures, security measures and the machine learning component itself are 
interesting, are introduced in. 
The same time frame or in in the same time, because often enough you cannot 
introduce measures before you introduce the actual. 
Risk, asset or risk component. 
So typically. 
Identifying them, trying to start with the mitigations, what can be started and then 
introducing the model and then introducing also any any measures or mitigations. 
However, before anything is ever deployed. 
Or or delivered to to customers.
 
Researcher   45:39 
Mm hmm. OK. 
Thank you. Then the last four or questions will have a a different. 
Different style of answering. So it's a little bit easy to to cool off The Jets now after 
the interview phase. 
So the the title of the section is future needs and wishes and. 
So basically the instructions for those. 
Yeah, not particularly questions, but statements which you then give a rating 
between one and 10. So one stands for insufficiently covered in my company and 10 
very well covered in my company. 
And so we Yep.
 
Interviewee   46:25 
Before we start really important, this is a completely subjective personal opinion by 
myself, so I at this point in time this is the only a non objective answer I can give if it's 
if. If that's fine with you, OK.
 
Researcher   46:37 
OK. 
Perfect. 
Yep. Perfect. Yep. It's fine, right? So. 
First one, the ability to select fit for purpose machine learning components to include 
in your software systems is.
 
Interviewee   47:03 
I would propose A7. 
So that ten was. Could you repeat the scale? I hope I got it right.
 
Researcher   47:12 
Yes, so one is insufficiently covered in my company and 10 is very well covered in my 
company.
 
Interviewee   47:16 
OK. 
OK, in that case my seven was correct, yes.
 
Researcher   47:23 
The ability to evaluate security concerns regarding ML components to include in your 
sips is. 
Very good. 
And the ability to maintain the machine learning components in sips is?
 
Interviewee   47:45 
To maintain the machine learning components in.
 
Researcher   47:49 
In in your software systems.
 
Interviewee   47:51 
OK. 
Probably A6 or. 
Maintenance is a challenge.
 
Researcher   48:02 
Last one. 
So this is now regardless of the scale. 
It's more regarding other points that should have been mentioned during the 
interview. What you thought this is missing? This is now still part of the official 
interview that we can like have in our recording.
 
Interviewee   48:27 
Actually, I think most of the parts have been quite good. 
And I actually have the feeling that that that most of the questions have also been 
sufficiently general. So. So I like the interview. It was extremely good to me. It was 
also well explained what you were actually talking about, which is rarely the case with 
scientific interviews because often enough. 
You just have a certain scope. No, I think everything was fine.
 
Researcher   48:58 
Perfect. 
Alright, thank you for that already. 
Right then we can a big stop here because we have like 5-4 minutes left for this 
scheduled time slots and so I'll finish up with stop the transcript.
 
Researcher stopped transcription
