April 10, 2024, 8:26AM
1h 2m 46s
 
Researcher started transcription
 
Researcher   0:37 
We will start with the first part of the questions, the pre-interview questionnaire  
regarding your background. So that we can also put your background into the paper in an 
anonymous form. First question: what is your role in the company?
 
Interviewee   0:51 
I'm part of the cybersecurity department; I'm called something like a cybersecurity specialist if you want or an expert. 
Currently, and I think that it is relevant to your topic. I'm handling the GenAI topics you know 
from a governance point of view, but also trying to implement let's say 
meaningful controls within our ISMS such that we do things compliant.
 
Researcher   1:31 
How many years of experience did you collect over a professional career?
 
Interviewee   1:38 
Specificly regarding the AI topic or overall.
 
Researcher   1:42 
In your current position, but also in the in the previous stations briefly.
 
Interviewee   1:49 
I mean the previous stations. I'm with information security or nowadays called cyber 
security for 12 years. 
Totally. Since let's say ending up with making all the mistakes myself, it's 
something like. 
Well, 2006 to know is nearly a decade.
 

 
Interviewee   2:13 
And the GenAI topic is something or I mean the last two to three years I would 
say.
 
Researcher   2:23 
Did you have any experience training or education machine learning security or 
adversarial machine learning?
 
Interviewee   2:32 
Partially. I mean partially during my studies definitely. But that time it wasn't called 
machine learning and that topic and we have more guiding than doing it myself due to my role, but for the other 
department, yes we have. 
Two models which we tried to implement for vulnerability management, so yes. 
If at school, if it you ask for operational, no. If it's going for for conceptualise, the 
things, yes.
 
Researcher   3:06 
OK. Thank you. This weather now the the pre interview questions regarding your 
background and so on, I mentioned that before now we go over to the main 
interview questions. 
Could you briefly explain your understanding of the terms machine learning and 
security, ideally with an example please?
 
Interviewee   3:27 
Machine learning. OK, well, machine learning is a specific area of data analytics 
where you try to generalize from a big data set towards a specific objective. 
That's if you ask me that that's what you would say, machine learning. 
And it's most of the time it's kind of a statistical representation of some specific 
features here you define for yourself. 
Security is it's a easy part because you have a system, an IT system has an intended 
way to work and everything that steps out of that intended way to work related to 
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of something would end up in the security domain.
 
Researcher   4:26 
Could you explain your understanding of machine learning security, ideally with an 
example?
 
Interviewee   4:38 
OK, I forgot the example in the last part, I see. 
Well, machine learning security comes up with as we just talked about, you know, a 
model when you start with a model, your final product is something which you 
operate. 
Before you start with the operation, somehow you just need to get to that model. I 
mean, it's not just there, it doesn't come out of the blue, so someone needs to start 
to determine its working data set, which already imposes some kind of security 
concerns like am I allowed to access that data? Is someone accessing that data and 
tampering with it? 
Like you know, put it like you have cash poisoning. You can also do some 
kind of a data set poisoning. 
That's the first part where I would start with security. Then, for instance, the training 
itself and the setup of the training itself. Or so it goes a little bit into the legal area. 
But this is intellectual property and this goes also with cybersecurity when it 
comes up to can I alter or just steal the information you're creating there? 

This is a fight topic, but it's still part of the security domain.
That's one of the things And then you come up with the operations. I mean a machine learning model. It's 
not just there because it is there. You just want to achieve some outcome with 
it and you have an operational environment. 

Basically, first of all, guarding that achievement like let's like take the instance where 
I had a, you know, vulnerability management predicting how long vulnerability will 
take until it gets remediated. 
Then I would love to have that model exactly giving me the output for that thing 
without someone, you know interfering with the answers either to 
change the data to make it not answering or the like, but I get really what I was 
expecting from the model. 
This is quite obvious, which is the security domain, and then we have another part 
which goes more into a more generic part because a model is usually 
embedded in an environment. 

And that environment means how do I run the model? Can I tweak it so that it does 
different things? Does it what we want currently? You know we have introduced new 
security holes into that environment. 
Might be one of the things like fetching data from the outside which I can't control.
Transferring data but it can also have. This goes a little bit the into the part of let's 
say availability. Can I DOS that thing where it now has security-relevant functions? 
Think about an automated, you know, network monitoring system. If that thing goes 
down and for whatever reason someone comes to the conclusion that if that 
monitoring system goes down you just need to shut off any network 
Connection. This can have a big impact. So, this is what I'm talking about 
with your environment, that means DOS is a problem, and there's also one of the 
things that I call the financial DOS is out of scaling. Usually machine learning model 
depends. But if you look up at the last years the development of machine 
learning models needs quite some decent computing power. 
If you have something like auto-scaling then you definitely end up in financial loss because if you just do that blindly, then 
yeah, Bitcoin mining is, I guess, one of the things you heard about.
And I think I've got the last or let's put it that way. I mean you can see that 
there are a lot of things you can attach to security all along. And actually, 
for me a machine learning model is still IT.
 
Researcher   8:16 
So, just for clarification the questions I asked you 
right now, it's not a quiz or anything. It's to see if we are on the same page.
Right. Next question: which security goals are announced by your company's 
management? To be more precise, how does your organization support machine 
learning security?
 
Interviewee   9:03 
That's a difficult point to answer because this goes a little bit also into the, let's say, 
confidential part. I mean our aspiration is definitely that we do things securely and compliant. 
And we deliver the things on an industrial grade, so that's the point of 
[company] that we try to support exactly you get a solution or we apply AI or machine learning in a secure manner that delivers what you expect in a cost-effective way and we do follow rules and regulations. 
 And also do that in an ethical manner.
 
Researcher   9:47 
For the next question, I'll give you a definition and some context for a specific term I'm using. It's called 
software-intensive products and services, short SIPS.
And those software systems are fulfilling specific requirements, so they're large and 
complex. They're subject to numerous engineering practices.
They are part of a dynamic environment. So one example would be the Spotify 
app, for example. 
And an example for not such a system would be a toy example that was specifically implemented for an experiment that we've done some tests on it and so on and so forth,
so that is called SIPS.
 
Researcher   10:48 
So so that you know the term when I mentioned it. The question building on this context: Why do you consider 
security aspects of machine learning components in your SIPS? For example, during 
your last project.
 
Interviewee   11:14 
I mean, I'm working with a cybersecurity department. OK, so our main goal is exactly 
securing that stuff that there's, I mean, this is our real task vision mission 
goal. Call it like you want to. 
We just need to look at those things and make things secure and maybe 
because we talk about SIPS, the most important thing is to try to reach a defense in depth. 
OK. So it's not just saying, OK, I've got a big block and I'm taking care of the 
periphery all along. If you want to make something secure, you start with the 
basics with the building blocks of it.
 
Researcher   11:43 
What machine learning models are applied in your machine learning intensive 
Software systems? 
 
Interviewee   12:10 
This is one of the questions even if I did not know all of them, I won't be allowed 
to talk about. 
You know that that's once again confidential part, but I can tell you being you 
know, in in the different parts, I mean [company] is quite big. So we have self-developed stuff. We have 
Open-licenced models so that there's kind of a plethora of things we're using 
there. For instance, that's one of the known things. If you think about it overall [company] 
we do also make use of the cognitive services at Microsoft and also the ones at 
Azure.
 
Researcher   12:54 
But can you maybe say what kind of models are used? Is it? 
The Generative AI, for example. Or is it a mix of a lot of them?
 
Interviewee   13:12 
Actually it is a very broad mix of everything if you want so, so yes, generative AI is 
one of the new things. But [company] is in the field for I think decades and we have 
already something called industrial grade AI where you have machine learning 
models based on simple things like you know Bayesian filtres. We have e-mail, 
e-mail filtering. It is as simple as that. But we have also when I'm looking at the 
cybersecurity self developed models all along. 
Threat detection, you know and these are not based on generative AI. These are, I mean, classical feature 
model and feature generation. Then you have that the machine learning all around you 
select the the right model for it. 
Or you have multi-staged approach, to be honest then you go for the next 
priority. You have the model and apply it and that goes for lots of different things. 
So, I tend to say. Search for something. You will find it here.
 
Researcher   14:24 
Which role does the security of your machine learning models 
play for the overall security of the respective system you are inspecting?
 
Interviewee   14:38 
It depends, but that's one of the most difficult questions because you know it 
depends on what you're using it for. 
Actually, now this is [company] specific thing. We have applications 
and they have some kind of a business need. And what we do this is also nothing 
very, very let's see confidential to it is we definitely defined the use case and go for a 
business impact analysis to define let's say what is it in there and depending on that component. 
And the criticality of what we're looking there 
you know, different measures are derived and also the different rule sets and work on 
it. 

Researcher   15:25 
So for the next question, I will give you again some contexts because these terms 
might be a bit confusing, but I will do my best to explain as well as possible. So 
we're looking at two scenarios. 
Scenario 1:
Is a system where where a machine learning component is implemented. 
And so it is already incorporated in the software system. You're you're looking 
at and 
scenario 2:
Is a software system and the plan is to integrate a machine learning model or a component into that 
respective system. 
So we're calling for the plant machine learning integration?

So question 10 is what is the difference in security aspects assessment of already 
implemented machine learning intensive software systems and a plant machine 
learning integration into a software system?


 
Interviewee   16:32 
Tough question. 
The first part is, I mean, if you look at your software system, what you have in there, it depends a 
little bit on its modularity. If it's totally opaque, then you would treat it like a 
software like it is. 
Still with having in mind that for AI or for machine learning topics you have 
additional, let's say, threats to it which you just need to evaluate. 

The integration to a new system is one thing which you always need to go to see you know how do you change 
let's say that software itself, I mean if you do it correctly modular then there is 
not too much changes to that part but you need to adapt the security along 
like it's a new component and everything once again the defense in depth idea is you 
try to integrate it that the component itself is secure enough to work altogether? OK, maybe one thing which we are on the 
way to it. So we are far not there, but it's at [company] and this is one of the things we 
will try is to incorporate zero trust in nearly everything. That means whenever we use 
something and integrate it, if it's just an API to it you know then that means you see 
that as a custom component like an own application which implies that you just need to go for all the things and think about how to 
secure that. If you talk about machine learning models which are easily 
embeddable in some kind of software, you know like I'm a monolithic block if 
you want so. That means you just need to go there and look at the whole application 
and the interaction to it. So that would be, you know, you add those things and 
would address it like it was an own application. 
Does that make sense to you?
 
Researcher   18:39 
How are we going to switch over to the risk assessment part? 
So I think the question is, how do you conduct risk assessment of machine learning 
intensive software systems, for example, in your last project?
And to be more specific. 
How relevant was the familiarity with machine learning security in the domain or 
the system under consideration before conducting risk assessments of the machine learning intensive software system.
 
Interviewee   19:21 
That's one of the things I can tell you that I didn't do too much of my own risk 
assessments there so that's that. 
I can tell you that the general approach to that thing and what we see, at least with the 
GenAI upcoming stuff. So we're currently building that thing up. But generally, the risk 
assessment follows a threat model where you just describe the threats to an application or to the data 
you're having there, and define you know.
 
Researcher   19:56 
One second. 
So, the question refers to the familiarity with machine learning security and how relevant it was during the risk assessment.
 
Interviewee   20:14 
I can tell you that this is one of the biggest problems we have here because 
with the risk assessments, usually, they're not made by professional guys, which 
sometimes leads to deviating, you know, risk assessment results. 
So I can tell you that most of the time it's not done by machine learning experts, 
which ends up sometimes in weird results. Let's call it that way, OK?
 
Researcher   20:44 
Right. And which roles are involved in the [risk assessment] process?
 
Interviewee   20:51 
Usually I mean in the processes you have there, we have experts and more 
generalists going through the things, and their role is to assess based on standard 
best practises all along IT security to evaluate that part. 
Which depending on their personal knowledge and this is one of the 
the things we definitely need to change, I can tell you right, I had this was one of the things we're working on.
We're just going to be a little bit more standardised that we just need to train people 
more and more in exactly those topics to understand better what it is all 
about.
 
Researcher   21:35 
How do those roles intact with each other?
 
Interviewee   21:45 
I mean, we have standard processes here. We have each and everything. We have a 
quite a lengthy process which follows a clear point and maybe also for making 
aware we have, you know, products and solutions, and we have internal services and 
these are two different trails to follow up on. 
What was product and solutions that there's the obligation, I mean once again, 
[company] is really an industrial grade and we have even you know that trustworthy AI 
label where you have clear rules to go through and say, OK, I've got this, I document 
this, I could document this. This is done on behalf of the solution owner. 
For our customers and internally, the official solution owner would be somehow, you 
know [company], but we have rules in here, and those guys need to provide exactly 
that information with a criticality. 
They are similar, but they are still different, but in the end, there's a clear metric 
Which say OK, the business owner is accountable and he needs to delve into those 
things and drag the right people into the topics so that he can answer that part.
 
Researcher   22:51 
How did you document the risk assessment results?
 
Interviewee   23:05 
Very formal. 
It is really meant like that, at least for the product and solutions they are. There is a 
kind of a lengthy process. Sometimes it is excellent, sometimes it's an application, 
but it is really formal. We have project milestones. You 
need to have it in a formal way where what it tells you, OK, this is the threat, this is the 
risk. This is my assessment. These are the mitigations.
 
Researcher   23:37 
On question 12, how do you generally conduct risk assessments? And there is a small 
kicker to that question. 
Which system modeling types are applied to conduct a risk assessment of machine 
learning intensive software system?
 
Interviewee   23:58 
What do you mean by system types?
 
Researcher   24:03 
Which system modeling type? So, what kind of modelling of a system do you use as 
a foundation to conduct the the risk, the threat modeling, or the risk assessment?
 
Interviewee   24:17 
I wouldn't say we have a system modeling type if you want, so I mean we did 
decompose the as I just said, I mean we did decompose the the things and their 
interfaces and their functionalities and their phases you have in there and address 
that the different topics if applicable. 
 
Researcher   24:37 
OK, maybe an example. 
Do you use, for example, data flow diagrams or any sort of of of diagram and to illustrate the system to have a foundation to 
conduct threat modeling on that system to illustrate the threats better.
 
Interviewee   24:56 
It depends on the solution itself. That's not, you know, mandated nor 
normalized or canonical there. But yes, in the end, you end up most of the time with 
some kind of a system overview with their interfaces. 
In one case and in the other case it depends a little bit on the solution 
itself. How you document, you know what you're looking at. Sometimes you 
you have a data flow, but most of the time you have a release system. So 
with us, OK, these are the systems. This is the input; this is the output. This is how they 
connect to each other.
 
Researcher   25:31 
Mm hmm. But you have some sort of of modeling, right? How was it in your 
last project that involved machine learning?
 
Interviewee   25:44 
Well, we don't have dataflow models, so it is exactly what I just telling you was. 
If you want so, you can look at the system components, which are there. OK, 
but it's not very important that this is what I was just emphasising we 
don't have a always canonical way to do that because we try to focus on the specific 
solution. So yes, you usually start with what are the network diagrams, what are your 
interfaces, and what are the users of that thing who can access what. 
What are the let's say the different parts. 

Usually you always assess, you know, where are the inputs to something, OK, what 
are the threats? Because you have two types of threats. Sometimes they're related to input or to the processing. Sometimes, you have external threats, which are, if 
you want so, by chance or regulatory things which you add to that part. But this is this 
is a structured process. First of all, of looking at the exact part, and then to derive. That's why we have the experts for those 
things. 
OK, so there's someone on the other side collecting with you the documentation and 
the diving into the documentation to be able to say, OK, I see this, this, and this, and 
they create in the end, for the internal stuff they create what we call a protection 
concept. 
For the external part, they create a risk analysis, which is very formal in the things 
they do, but they don't share that with the outside, obviously. 
But it is within to document and to put it in the product description.
 
Researcher   27:26 
Right. But you don't have a standardized process, a standardized process. If, for 
example, you have generative AI, then we use, for example, System modeling type X, and if it is a different kind of AI, then we use this.
Or does it vary from case to case, then?

Interviewee   27:39 
No. 
Yeah, it depends from case to case, maybe also one or it's maybe also because of our 
size and a different way how people approach that part. What we definitely try is to 
create what we call building blocks. So you see patterns of solutions. I mean, as 
you just mentioned, generative AI. 
90% of the things we're looking at there are RAG chatbots. That means you end up 
with always the same structure to it. So, You can very fast start to abstract and say OK, I'm interested exactly in those 
components on that part and is there anything else you just forgot about? 
But this is more like building blocks and introducing like you do right now. You 
know an expert interview trying to find out what is there? Did you forget 
something going through real services, real interfaces?
This is where you mix up, let's say, machines with the knowledge of experts.
 
Researcher   28:48 
Which perspective do you select? Is it system-, attacker-, or asset-centric?
 
Interviewee   29:00 
It's the difference between a system and an asset, first of all. 
For me, it's kind of the same.
 
Researcher   29:09 
Well, system is like if you look at the entirety and the asset is really focusing on 
for example the data set which covers the the most important part and you don't 
care about the the rest of the parts for example.
 
Interviewee   29:26 
OK. Then I can tell you, I would say this is a combination of all the tree. So it starts 
always with a system. 
But you know the parts themselves. Once again, you remember defense-in-death. 
You always start with a big picture and also with a user-centric if you want to 
because it's always like the interfaces and users are not only persons for us. A user can 
be also another machine or another system, basically. 
We try to incorporate all these three things because they are important for the threat 
modeling.

 
Researcher   30:05 
Which methodologies do you choose? Is it strides pasta, Tara, or a 
combination of of them, or something completely different?
 
Interviewee   30:16 
[company] proprietary.
 
Researcher   30:20 
Alright. 
Why are you not using just one of those proposed methodologies?
 
Interviewee   30:34 
Yeah, you're getting me into trouble now, but basically, one of the things which  
you can see, and I guess that's important to understand for every 
methodology we see, there is an overlap over the things we do. At the same time, it 
sometimes doesn't really fit. So it depends. When there are methodologies out 
there we would say the most of the time you know that Pareto 
principle, it fits our our needs very well. 
Then, usually, we tend to apply those standard methods. 
If we see that it doesn't fit, I mean, if you have a majority where you just need to 
adapt or you, you're lacking the possibilities to follow our internal regulations. 
Then, You're not simply not using them. It doesn't make sense to use 
a tool which is not fitting your your needs.
 
Researcher   31:33 
OK. During the threat modelling risk or risk assessment.
Did you apply any curated attack repositories such as ATLAS MITRE, for example?
 
Interviewee   31:50 
Yes, I would. I mean the rate that we have internal curated stuff, we also, I mean I was 
just talking about MITRE and alike. We even contribute to those bodies and we have a 
clear exchange to the outside. Once again it depends a little bit what are you looking 
at and how much knowledge is also externally available or not. 
For the GenAI, this is one of the things I'm currently working on. ATLAS MITRE is 
nice. 
Still, it is at some points to coarse and some other points too detailed for the necessities we 
currently, see. 
Just to give you an idea, I mean about the ATLAS MITRE is great to have an overview, 
but it it fits more on a playbook attack pattern and less to a threat modelling which 
might come up I think about legal stuff. I mean intellectual property and copyright 
issues, which you definitely have with GenAI is simply not modelled in there.
 
Researcher   32:32 
Thank you for the explanation, because I was a bit confused. You 
said two coarse or too detailed, right? So that's both ends of the spectrum 
could you elaborate on your statement a little bit further, please?
 
Interviewee   33:08 
Yeah, it is. Basically, I mean that's always when you look at the thing. 
Just to give you an idea, let's take a CVSS standard, OK? 
If you look at the CVSS standard, and if you just look at the base metrics for 
vulnerability management, it's a perfect thing to describe that. 
For technical people to understand what a problem is. 
At the same time, that's the coarse. Why it's the coarse because it doesn't only 
matter the technical part. It's always also about your environment. 
OK, at the same time, when you try to implement something like the environmental 
score and the temporal score. 
You end up sometimes with questions that are too detailed or not applicable to 
your thing. We have a risk methodology here. You know with rating, criticality of 
applications. 
Sometimes you can just map that with high, medium, low. Sometimes it's that nitty 
gritty that you say. OK, but that's nice, but I simply can't apply that. This is 
information I would need to first of all artificially generate to fulfil that part. 
This is exactly when you look at the MITRE. Yeah. At some point 
of time, you know, you go with specific ways how to have a playbook to attack and 
model. 
Sometimes I'm just sitting in there and say OK guys, I mean prompt injections. The 
problem is that we can talk about different prompt injections because you just need to be 
aware of. But do what I really need to distinguish those for a playbook? 
Detection-wise yes. But for Playbook, not. You know and this is where I'm ending up 
with why I'm saying OK, some of the things I see to coarse some of the things I see 
too detailed.
But also, one of the questions may be for you that this is always 
the case in academia. You ask two people, you get 3 different models to it. And so 
everybody would say the same thing about his model.
 
Researcher   35:07 
How often do you see the need to conduct threat modeling/Risk 
assessment of an ML-intensive software system and why?
 
Interviewee   35:20 
OK, that's a very easy one to answer. So basically each and every time you majorly change the component itself. 
From introduction, yes, obviously, because you did't know anything before, you didn't had it before but also on, on major 
changes when you really know if you are just changing certificates, it's standard IT.
If you notably or significantly change the way that thing interacts then 
you definitely need to do that risk assessment. 
That's why these are, let's say, the major things. 
Secondly, on a regular basis, the regular basis is a little bit difficult to define because it depends a little bit also on 
your use case. 
But from a specific point of view, I mean with cybersecurity, the whole world tends to what we call, you know, continuous 
monitoring. 
I know this is not really achievable because you always have sampling times, 
but in the end, Monitoring should be done all the time. 
And trying to detect if there's something.
This splits a little bit up or, let's say, in a 
cybersecurity domain, you always have something protective which ends up a little bit with a threat modeling and you have, you know, the 
detection, which is what you do during operations, and they overlap and sometimes 
not but.
 
 
Researcher   37:20 
So what do you say one-time or continuous [threat] modeling, then?
 
Interviewee   37:25 
It's a kind of micro-batch continuous monitoring. The main point is but this is let's say 
how we work and what you talk about. The major, you know security 
environment means. 
We can try to describe classes of things. 
But it doesn't mean that you just need to describe the exact instance of it. So we try 
to generalise as much as possible that you know what is the threat model and a 
general point of view. You just need to describe it for yourself.
Getting back to the, let's say, ever-increasing attack vectors, this is actually nothing new for 
machine learning models than to the other software. If you look at CVS which 
are I think more than 100,000 a year, this is exactly what you just need to do. 
You need to see where am I. Do I have protective measures already that try to address classes, not 
specific instances? This is one other thing and the second part too. It's threatened to 
vulnerability management in the public. 
We react on those things.
 
Researcher   38:30 
OK, so you would say on a regular basis to conduct the threat modeling 
part unless there is some specific trigger or event that?
 
Interviewee   38:40 
Yes.
 
Researcher   38:42 
That forces you to do like.
 
Interviewee   38:45 
Exactly.
 
Researcher   38:46 
A separate or emergency threat on like. OK, thank you. 
Which challenges occur during threat modeling/risk assessment of ML-intensive software systems? 
And what to be maybe more specific, what is the main difference between 
machine learning systems and non-machine learning systems?
 
Interviewee   39:12 
The biggest problem to The thing is they introduce a different set of problems. I mean, machine learning usually 
doesn't, just to give you a high point what I see is in the understanding of the 
people doing the the threat modelling. Why is that? If you look at IT systems I can 
develop easily code and test it with artificial data and go for the things and try to 
create a solution that I can then deploy.
That's an easy part. 

With machine learning models. Their development stage is not on artificial data anymore. 
You can do a little bit of exploration and understanding, but if it comes for you to develop that machine 
ruining model, the key to the machine learning model is the abstraction of real data, 
which means you step out of that development mode. 
Which sometimes does not understand but understood by the people.
Secondly, Machine Learning attacks against machine learning weren't that prominent. That means 
people are sometimes not aware of the implications of that. If you want, so it's still something esoteric there.
 
If you think about adversarial training, they are already quite good papers, but these 
are still in the domain of some weird researchers but not in the common 
sense or body of knowledge of people, which makes it hard for the people to 
understand the part. 

And last but not least, it's always like with each and everything 
you try to model. If you end up with too many modelling topics or security topics. 
People tend to get overwhelmed and just cut corners.



 
Researcher   41:10 
adversarial training is a good transition for the next question which refers to defence mechanisms. How do you select the 
appropriate defense mechanisms to protect ML-intensive systems 
based on your threat modeling or risk assessment results?
 
Interviewee   41:13 
Hmm. 
That's currently in the works.
 
Researcher   41:38 
OK. Can you elaborate on it a little, please? 
 
Interviewee   41:41 
I mean, OK, let's put it quite simple. If you end up with let's say things which you can 
solve with traditional IT methods, you know like secure data, check your data before 
you use it, and alike. So when you have those traditional methods of 
evaluation, this is what we give people to think of and to comply with a rule set. 
Now getting back to the things which are new or where we don't have existing 
solutions or best practises. 
Take the GenAI stuff. How to prevent prompt injection? There's a simple 
answer. I don't have a clue yet. 
So there are. There are people coming all along with solutions, proposals trying to 
sign or rate limiting. We tried to find ways maybe to mitigate some of the topics. 
But this requires quite a lot of work, and as the rest of the world when I'm getting to 
the GenAI part, we're trying to find solutions to nothing. I can't tell you if you have 
this then use that, but it's more like if you have this you have that risk. 
Is that an acceptable risk for you, or how do you get there? 
That's why I initially said we do that impact analysis for 
ourselves. So doing the criticality rating to it and depending on the criticality rating, 
we also go further and say, OK, if that's not critical then maybe it does need some 
kind of a level of protection if you would use something which is very 
critical. 
Then, most probably, you would start to ring-fence things to create lots of things all around, at least to mitigate the exploitability.
 
Researcher   43:39 
Threats that are based on the machine learning model that is applied now in 
the product, in the software. What are we going to do about it? What is then the procedure?
So you say there is no standardized procedure, but what do you do then?
 
Interviewee   44:02 
There is a meta process if you want so that this is what I would try to explain. 

I mean first of all you have a threat. The first thing for a threat is to evaluate in your 
environment. Is that threat imminent for me or not? So, does it make sense in my 
environment and under which circumstances? This is basically what you usually do 
with threat modeling. So you think about likelihood, exploitability, and impact, 
This is the first thing.
The second part that comes with the criticality of it.
So that this is the first part we just evaluate, OK, how relevant and how severe is 
that for me. This is a meta process.

It is a little bit formalized but not perfectly because you 
just need to have subject matter expertise for the topics you're looking at. At the 
same time, on the other side, we create a rating for the things you're doing there. For 
instance, just to give you an idea, if you create an insulin pump for at 
[company]. There's a totally different criticality to it. If we 
would create some kind of Light detector. OK, which might try to take into account date times, and intensity 
of whatsoever. So you see already the criticality to it is very important and 
derived from, let's say, the impact you see there and the criticality of the product you're 
going there.
This is, first of all, describing your risk profile. Based on that 
thing, you just need to think about what compensating controls are. Let's stay on 
that meta level where you say, I can compensate to some level that I lower 
the risk of impact or likelihood. When I say OK, it can still happen.
But I'm confident I pushed a bar so high that it's very unlikely to 
happen. That's one of the ways to address the risk. These are the controls to implement. 

There are sometimes also hard requirements coming from internal and external 
regulations telling you just need to implement XYZ. 
Like doing the part, and there might be even the point where I say, OK, it's nice that 
you want to do it, but no. This is also not very often, but there is an outcome to that thing. When you say 
taking that insulin pump to stay in that example, it's not now machine learning, but 
putting the TELNET interface of an insulin pump to the Internet. It's a 
clear no. I mean, you don't need to talk about that. It's very, very clear. That 
means the thing that needs to be done on network access needs to be facilitated if 
there's no user management and you just need to confine it into a segregated 
network that only has a jump host. So, these are exactly the compensating controls.
 
And this is no different to machine learning. Honestly speaking. I mean, this is the 
same thing when you think about it because we've stayed with that adversarial 
training, for instance, you just need to go there, and you just need to 
describe your model and try to find out in which boundaries it is and say 
this is that far if I deploy that way, I restrict access to it I'm putting all the things 
in there, and I can just go there and say you have still got that thing and say OK, addressed or limited point.
 
And in the end, and this is now exactly what I was talking about, criticality, the 
business needs to decide this is a risk we can accept. 
Because there's nothing you do without risk, that's also one of the things 
which are quite crucial to understand. Whatever you do has a risk.

To find meta steps that a company that decides to implement machine 
learning into their software systems and what should they do.
So they went through the whole threat modeling part. They identified the threats. 
They gave it a score. It's critical, and now? 
The security expert needs to find mitigations. 
So you are saying that they need to find mitigations kind of themselves?
 
Interviewee   48:42 
Yes and also no that's a careful part. I mean, we're not reinventing the wheel. They have 
different ways. Sometimes you have solutions out in the field, but let's 
shortly step a little bit back because we have in our traditional IT, it's easier to explain. 
It depends a little bit where we are but if you think of Web application firewall is a 
is a solution or a solution concept you have there you can go there and buy 
something and put it in there. You don't, you don't need to reinvent the wheel. 
Someone thought about that part, and it's a well-known concept how to restrict attacks to it.

On API level, or sometimes even on. Application layer OK that it is as simple as that. It's not perfect. 
You still have some ways to bypass it, but it is a way to secure it. 
That means you well-known concepts and apply them to that thing and say I know already of 
the effectiveness and can tell you the likelihood is going to be less. 

Getting back to a prompt injection.
Are there any known ways to do it? 
Currently, not really. So they are coming up, you know. 
Providers and solutions to do that. You see some scientific papers  
propose some different things, but in the end, there's no solution or no concept yet known how to prevent it. 
That ends up with we just need to way to solve that problem somehow. 
And even if the mitigation means to give it just to only people you know and 
monitor the behaviour of that thing. 
Search for omit or add the rules or change rules, and the prompts to at least be 
able to detect that stuff. 
That would be a very clumsy way to do it. It's still better than not doing anything, 
but you know, you see, then we just need to find a solution to it. 
And this is exactly where the security expert needs to also understand 
environment sometimes. It's just saying, OK, I know that put it in there. Let the people 
configure it. We're going through the configuration and check. 
So it's really that variety.
 
Researcher   51:01 
Which additional procedures had to be implemented after the initial security 
evaluation of the plant machine learning integration in your company before the 
plant ML integration was executed?
 
Interviewee   51:28 
Also, I'm talking now about the playbook, but usually, you need what we call 
a protection concept or the risk assessment to be fulfilled and acknowledged by the 
owners. So the ones who are really also accountable for what they're doing before 
deploying that into productive mode. This is now process-wise clear. So the idea 
is. 
You can do whatever you want to, but you just need to follow the rules and have a 
clear description of your risk profile and how you address that, and that you 
definitely accept the risk. 
The risks there, saying I have known about that part but before 
going live and going live means stepping out of that development mode and making 
it available either to customers or to the internal folks in a productive way.
 
Researcher   52:20 
But there are no specific or machine learning-centered procedures. 
Needed to be introduced to the certain life cycle of the software system.
 
Interviewee   52:36 
Basically, and that's maybe one of the things which which is very special, we try 
to integrate that into into the overall processes. So the idea if you build up you know 
a solution somehow, that solution needs to follow already existing 
processes we have there which are not clarifying only machine learning stuff. But 
there is legal, there is cyber security there, there are a lot of things you know they 
just need to follow. Those processes are somehow streamlined to support our 
you know, business owners but also the developers of any solution. 
Guide them through as best as possible, you know through the different requirements. 
That means we don't add additional things in terms of additional steps to it, but yes, 
there are additional, let's see machine learning specifics in there. For instance, when 
we look at the GenAI this is exactly what we're working on to increase the processes 
with additional risk model threats and also questions to guide them 
already in that process through the things.
 
Interviewee   53:42 
Does that make sense to you?
 
Researcher   53:44 
It makes sense. However, since machine learning and machine learning security are still 
a new topics, right? So you don't have proper rules, requirements, or regulations for 
it. So, as an example.

You want to implement a machine learning component into your software system 
and there might be attempts of data poisoning or statistical drift, for example. 
There you need to monitor carefully the input to the machine learning model to see 
if there is a statistical drift or to detect adversarial examples for 

So before you, before you introduce a machine learning component into your 
software into your software system, you need to do the monitoring, for example.
 
Interviewee   54:49 
So I now you're hitting exactly the way why we do that on a use-case basis. So 
think about a machine learning model which has an input not only for inference, but 
also for changing the model itself, right? This is what you just described. 
If you're looking at something like, that is exactly where you start with a threat 
modelling and ask of the interfaces and ask what's happening with the thing. OK, 
if your input is just to take the e-mail and get the score out of it. 
The risk profile looks totally different. You might need to think about, you know that 
there's a jailbreak in that thing if you want so. Finding IT vulnerabilities, but there's no problem with it. One point.

If you come up with the point you have inputs to that thing which are being processed to adapt your SPAM filters. 
That is a totally different part because you need to think at least and handle and
 state what do I need to take care of that input validation. 
From a cybersecurity point of view this is exactly what we talk about Input validation.
If you can't input validate, what are the measures to detect those things or at least to have a kill switch to it?
But this is exactly where you get into the details of that component and user thingy which 
you already see. 
I'm still able to drill it down back to the IT environment because it is basically similar. 
I mean Bayesian Filters are not categorised as machine learning.
But you know we have that already in place. 
There's nothing new to it. Yes, it gets difficult with the new models or when we 
have multimodal things that we currently I mean if you talk about talk about GenAI 
and self-adapting [AI]. 
That's simply a new environment. Usually, people ask, how should I do 
that? 
And currently, my answer is, honestly speaking, I don't have a clue yet. 
I guess you follow, you know also the academia and also the 
attacks on that part if you look at that adversarial training, you know at the Black Hat 
last year was simply awesome. It's great that you know that you can do something 
like that, or you know, even a really secluded chatpot which gets with the masking 
and asking arts that it is simply awesome how you can circumvent that 
part. Find a way how to prevent it. I don't know any. 

 
Researcher   57:45 
Future needs and wishes is the title of the The last section and.
 
Researcher   57:55 
There are instructions for the next part of the interview: 
So, you will answer the following questions based on the scale. 1 means this is 
insufficiently covered in my company, and 10 means it's very well covered in my 
company.
 
So the ability to select fit-for-purpose machine learning components to include in our 
software systems is...
 
Interviewee   58:26 
Can you repeat that? Slowly.
 
Researcher   58:34 
To select fit for purpose machine learning components to include. 
In your software systems is.
 
Interviewee   58:49 
One to 10, I would say. 
No, but I selecting and creating one of the things, that's exactly what we do there is 
so. 
Most of the time I would go over something 5, 6, 7 somewhere all around that. It's a 
little bit difficult to really go for a real number, but this is actually our business, you 
know.
 
Researcher   59:11 
Mm hmm, So what you say 6?
 
Interviewee   59:13 
Yeah, let's put a six there. Yes.
 
Researcher   59:17 
The ability to evaluate security concerns machine learning components to include in 
your software system.
 
Interviewee   59:27 
At present, I would go for a two to a three.
 
Researcher   59:33 
The ability to maintain the machine learning components in our software system.
 
Interviewee   59:41 
That's a total business decision. 
That's that. I can't answer that thing.
 
Researcher   59:51 
So, the ability to maintain the machine learning components in software systems is 
not answerable.
 
Interviewee   59:59 
No, I mean you can put everything in there from none because they just bought 
it to really self-trained with selling that as a [company] own product. Then I would put a 
ten so.
 
Researcher   1:00:16 
Last question. 
Any other points that should have been asked or mentioned during this interview?
 
Interviewee   1:00:28 
I love that one. 
I would need to know exactly what you're up to tell you that thing. 
 
Researcher   1:00:40 
Right. So the, the idea is to extract the state of practice. So, what are companies doing 
so far to assess the security of machine learning components? How to react to them. 
So decide which kind of defence mechanisms should they use so that with the results 
of the study. One can have like some sort of guideline to follow 
in order to to reapply it if they're like completely new to the security assessment of 
machine learning components.
 
Interviewee   1:01:18 
I mean you ask that kind of a sideways, but the involvement in, let's say, 
Certification standardisation bodies is, I guess, because the state of practise comes 
also with it. If you have a company that just says OK, let's wait for something, that's 
OK, if you see people trying to drive standardization, I mean, I know this can be also 
two-sided sword but standardising things and creating, let's say, some kind of a 
certification label as you had, for instance, with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth stuff. 
It's very, very important to understand which kind of maturity level you have, you know. 
I mean, this is more or less the acknowledgment. OK am I aware that there is 
something I just need to do and how much I'm investing on that thing?
 
Researcher stopped transcription
