Spotkanie aplikacji Teams-20240417_150240-Meeting 
Recording
April 17, 2024, 1:02PM
1h 1m 29s
 
Researcher   0:03 
Hey if it works.
 
Researcher started transcription
 
Researcher   0:06 
Alright, yes, test test. 
Right, works perfectly. 
So. So the first questions I'll ask you will be regarding your backgrounds. 
So could you briefly describe what is your role in your company?
 
Interviewee   0:28 
Yes. So I'm a senior key expert at [company]. My topic is attack detection. 
This is basically what I've been doing for quite some time, because before going to 
[company], I was PhD students. I did my PhD in the Netherlands and the University 
of Twente working on developing intrusion detection systems for operational 
technology for industrial control system building automation. 
That was what I was doing and then I joined [company] like roughly seven years ago. I 
was part of the [company] SERT first. 
And then I moved more into the research. Again, I would say, given the PhD and 
since then, as I said, I was the responsible person, let's say from a research 
perspective on attack detection more recently. I mean there was the need of 
structuring the topic of AI and Cybersecurity what the role of AI in cybersecurity was and since basically a year. 
I am the one doing this, trying to collect all the feedback from the colleagues and 
trying to build up a story for our technology field.
 
Researcher   1:50 
OK. Thank you. Then we can already skip the second question. I do this for the 
protocol so that when I will clean up everything that I can follow up on it. So the 
third question is, did you have any experience training or education in machine 
learning security or at the adversarial machine learning?
 
Interviewee   2:13 
So. 
I did have a course. 
That was on artificial intelligence at the university and 
I then studied on my own because of the PhD, we had to use some ML/AI when it 
came to anomaly based intrusion detection, but at that point I would say this is not 
training anymore. This is more like studying but just one course at the university. 
That was basically it.
 
Researcher   2:47 
Mm hmm, There was nothing from [company] in particular that prepared you for the 
direction of machine learning security, or adversarial machine learning?
 
Interviewee   2:58 
No, I mean so we have always Talk series in which colleagues explain one or another topic,
 and definitely, we had some meetings, some presentations of colleagues. 
On LLMs and so on and so forth. So that is part of training. I mean it is claimed. So 
actually within [company] as well. So yes in that regard a lot of presentations, 
but no formal calls or anything like this.
 
Researcher   3:36 
Now we're gonna go over to the main part of the 
interview. So the background is needed in order to do a candidate profiling and 
now we go over to the core content of the interview. 
So could you briefly explain 
your understanding of the terms machine learning and security, ideally with an 
example, please.
 
Interviewee   4:01 
So machine learning and security together. 
You mean?
 
Researcher   4:08 
Separately, no, no. Let's start separately.
 
Interviewee   4:11 
Oh, what is cybersecurity and what is machine learning? 
OK, so machine learning is to me like the process of. 
Automating. 
Knowledge acquisition. 
For a machine, so a machine storing and structuring information to be later used 
that is what machine learning is and cybersecurity as a whole is the field of 
computer science looking into how threats are done, are implemented in the 
field of information technology.
 
Researcher   5:03 
Right, this is this is not a test. It's just like to see if we're on the same page. 
And yeah, exactly. Thank you. Could you explain your understanding of machine 
learning security ideally with with an example, please?
 
Interviewee   5:18 
OK, machine learning security to me is then the  
process of understanding what threats are specific to ML and AI. 
And understanding how to mitigate those threats.
 
Researcher   5:42 
Which security goals are announced by your company's 
management and with more specifically for machine learning security?
 
Interviewee   5:55 
Well, I mean, there is a clear. So first of all, you should differentiate between research 
and operation in this case probably because we have different goals. Our goal is to 
be on top of things to be on top of topics and this is definitely an odd topic because 
of the use of AI happening like in the future ready nowadays. But from an operation 
perspective, the goal is to continue to keep [company] secure and that goes from 
like [company] product and services. So protecting 
those products and services and inherently protecting the customers that are using 
those products and services that are that are AI-powered to some extent. On the 
other hand, we have the goal of protecting [company] internally. That means that we 
are using AI at the moment within [company] and we must do it in a proper way.
 
Researcher   7:02 
Alright, so to summarise, [company] tries to stay on top of things so it develops, 
machine learning, security properties that will be done later as soon as they're 
standardised and properly prepared. A standardized process for future products used 
within [company]. 
 
Interviewee   7:22 
Modern properties processes and Approaches to secure products and this is what we are doing in terms of research 
and then the operational part will be to put all of this into practise and to make sure 
that the whole [company] is behind and then really complying with those.
 
Researcher   7:44 
Now, a short explanation. So we're looking at software intensive 
products and services, also called SIPS as an abbreviation, and those software 
systems fulfil certain requirements. So they're large and complex, usually also subject 
to numerous engineering practises. 
And there are parts of a dynamic environment, so an example for SIPS would be the Spotify app. 
Right, you have a lot of users. It's under the subject of many regulations and 
restrictions and what's not a SIPS is a toy example that was implemented for 
specific scientific experiments and which we also call a toy example. 

So question #7 with this context, why do you consider security aspects of 
machine learning components in your SIPS in your software systems that are 
used within [company]? For example, during your last project?
 
Interviewee   8:57 
We need to focus on ML/AI compared to other part of the SIPS as you call it. But it's just that you have an attack 
surface and that ML/AI component is part of that attack surface. So you need to 
know what the weak spots are and how to mitigate that or to decrease the likelihood of getting hit on those weak spots so that 
there is nothing special about them. The thing is that nowadays maybe there are 
there is much more attention to to those weak spots. So there are a lot of 
researchers that show how this weak spots can be exploited. And on the other hand, 
the point is that the whole world is rushing into adding those ML components to products. 
So that rushing is to me that the real issue here. So because the proper 
discussion on how to protect all of this and what it entails to have those components 
from security perspective, that hasn't been happening in the same way we had 
other discussions in the past. So it's just that they need providing AI every way in, in 
every place at every time. 
Needs to be understood from a security perspective.
 
Researcher   10:38 
Before implementing AI in a SIPS or in a software system that is used in production, 
is that is that correct?
 
Interviewee   10:46 
Yes, yes, I am. We are rushing into delivering products. 
That has those components. So this is the discussion at the moment. 
We need to make sure that the level of protection of those products is the same. 
even if we are adding now this extra component, this extra, I mean that goes 
more into the details, but that extra components is likely a component that has been 
developed somewhere else that goes in a direction of protecting your supply chain. 
Or it has an external service because many companies will not provide internal 
service for that. So of course it has a lot of complexity there or some more 
complexity.
 
Researcher   11:39 
Mm hmm. So a follow-up question. 
Do you see that AI as a new technology is developing faster or is forced faster 
into production than other technologies.
 
Interviewee   11:56 
Yeah, it's not developed faster per se because we have been talking about AI for 
ages. 
Just now, we have actually probably the amount of data that was needed to really 
have systems that make sense and we also have the computational power, the 
computing power to actually process all the data. 
So the development is not in a rush. 
The need of using those components, yes, that is to me in a rush, 
so it's like if you don't have an AI component, so you are 
lagging behind.
 
Researcher   12:40 
Mm hmm. OK, so if I understood you correctly, we're implementing AI components 
or machine learning components into products although they're not properly 
evaluated from a security perspective.
 
Interviewee   12:58 
No, I won't say that also because we are recording. But I would say that we are 
first of all, we are not implementing, we are adding components more than 
implementing usually and it's not like we are delivering components that are not 
protected. It's just that we should be sure that the processes we use to protect 
our products still apply 100 percent and I'm not missing something with these components, so that's the thing. 
So, the protection is there;
The question is what I was doing before having an AI component is sufficient. Or should I ask 
different questions? Or should I check different things than before and that is yet not 
answered completely because we don't know the capabilities out there of the 
attackers of exploiting this. This kind of system? We don't know exactly what kind of 
what kind of vulnerabilities we have there.
We don't even know if we should be discussing vulnerabilities within the model itself 
in terms of having specific response in answering the questions on the natural language 
domain, so these are the things that needs to be asked and researched at 
the moment.
 
Researcher   14:21 
I didn't mean that the components are not protected, but the 
certainty about the entire full protection is not there yet because we were 
doing research on it and still we're implementing those components then  
in products.
 
Interviewee   14:39 
Maybe. Maybe in 10 years it can also be that in 10 years we show OK, everything that 
we used to do before LLM becoming a thing was sufficient to protect LLMs as well 
because they were just the software might be so might be that we were all protected 
all along without any problem. I doubt but yeah.
 
Researcher   15:03 
OK. Thank you. Thank you very much. Very interesting. Next question: what's 
machine learning models are applied in your systems, the systems at [company]?
 
Interviewee   15:15 
So you mean like what kind of model? Like if we are using GPT4 versus whatever 
other model or?
 
Researcher   15:24 
Large language, yeah. Large, large.
 
Interviewee   15:26 
How can terms of OK, so let's say.
 
Researcher   15:28 
Or is it generative AI, yeah?
 
Interviewee   15:30 
Yeah, let's go. Exactly. Let's put it that way then. So if we differentiate between like 
generative AI and predictive AI, so to say predictive AI was there all the time, I would 
say.
Because I mean, if it comes to security anomaly based intention detection is basically using 
some predictive machine learning
Classifying events trying to understand if those events are malicious or not. I mean that has 
been there for a while and you have 1000 Products probably or more than products like systems 
or sips as you said that have these capabilities.
 If you think to like I don't know, robot arms in a factory taking stuff 
from putting stuff, I mean the AI is there has been there forever.
The generative AI think it wasn't used so much in the past because the LLM
So when it comes to language is kind of. It's not new, but it is has been proven to be very effective
 just recently. Because, I mean, when it comes to generative AI, more in general probably like 
if you ask the simulation and digital twin Department. They had already something because so they had the need to 
recreate factories for example in the vehicle domain. 
So, probably, in that case, some generative AI might have been there. 
But definitely the language part now seems to be everywhere in and that's where this 
has changed.
 
Researcher   17:33 
For the predictive AI, just as out of curiosity to predict if AI is using shadow machine 
learning like decision trees, or are you also shifting over more to deep learning and 
applying deep learning models?
 
Interviewee   17:57 
Use the planning for. Again, I can talk more about the intrusion detection part. Of 
course in that case it was. We started with the yeah decision trees. We had Bayesian 
network by Bayesian classifier and then as VMS and then we use neural network. 
To yeah to to, for example, evaluate the kind of. Yeah, assessment security events. It 
was network traffic, it was Cisco traces. 
Neural networks were used and not have been used for quite some time.
 
Researcher   18:34 
Which role does the security of your machine learning models play in the 
overall security of your systems?
 
Interviewee   18:53 
Yeah, but this is what we are working on at the moment. 
The idea, so at the beginning maybe I would say the idea was we treat
the AI/ML component, as any other software component point is now that there are. 
I mean there these models are huge, have been trained in places in which you, so I've 
been trained in a way that you don't know anything about it. And this adds 
complexity from a security perspective. So needs to be added on top. 
It is still a niche inside to some extent, because we're, as I said, we are still trying to 
understand. 
How much we have to deepen that part to make an assessment on how secure SIPS is. 
But this is so this is still treated as just any other component, only that some of us are 
are looking more into what kind of attacks can be done out there. And then if there 
is anything that we need to, as I said, we need to add on top of our standard security 
process.
 
Researcher   20:11 
Thank you. And for the next question, I'll give you some context. We're looking 
at 2 scenarios. 
So, in one scenario where you have SIPS. 
A software system where there is a machine learning component already integrated. 
And then there is the 2nd scenario where we're looking at SIPS, a software system 
where it is planned to include a machine learning component, right? So we have 
those two scenarios. 
So the question is, what is the difference in security aspects assessment of already 
implemented machine learning SIPS and a plant machine learning integration into sips.
 
Interviewee   21:01 
Mm hmm M. 
Well, I mean, so I suppose in the first scenario. 
We can think security from the so from an overall life cycle perspective, so we have been thinking from the 
beginning how to integrate that component. So in any. 
At Step you have specific assumption on the software and on the overall system that 
allows you to say really or to guess. In any case what the best set up for security is. 
So you know, so to say everything of that software and you are taking decisions 
based on the fact that you have to integrate an ML/AI component here. So all 
the decisions that you're taking kind of go towards the goal of having a product that 
has an AI in a component secure. 
Whereas the other situation is different because you made 
assumptions that might not. 
Might not go towards that goal in the 1st place because your intended set up didn't 
have an ML/AI component. So now you are in need of handing such a component. I 
mean, you take everything that you thought about that software. 
Or above the system. But the point is you don't know if everything that you decided 
before fix this new situation. 
And then if it doesn't fit perfectly, then you have to accommodate things. 
I mean the most simplistic scenarios you weren't supposed to add any external 
service connecting to your system and you are, you cannot spring to develop 
your own larger language model because of cost. 
Then you have to rethink your overall system connecting to an external service, and 
that is a big deal because then you have to. 
Basically, relax a lot of assumptions and then rethink about all the security that you 
Did before adding this ML/AI component. So, Long story short, I think it's more complicated  
if you have the second situation.
 
Researcher   23:37 
Thank you very much. 
Next part. So how do you conduct risk assessment of machine learning intensive 
sips? 
In your last projects, more specifically, how relevant was the familiarity with machine 
learning security in the domain or system under consideration before conducting 
risk assessment of the system in your last project, for example?
 
Interviewee   24:12 
Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's not like we have been doing this for so long. I mean, right 
now there is big attention there and then we really started thinking about how to do 
this risk assessment. And so we have a process for risk assessment. It's called PSS 
product solution security. 

It has a lot of activities within a lot of considerations that you have to make in it 
basically. 
Guides you towards the overall risk assessment in the design, development and 
operation. 
So that's what we are doing is basically thinking, OK, which? 
I wanted to say within this process, I mean one of the most 
important part is the threat and risk analysis. So there is. 
Some process, if you will, in which you are really discussing the system, the 
architecture and you are discussing all the attack scenarios for that specific system. 
All the possible mitigations and then you are also computing the risk on top of a lot 
of consideration that you're doing. So this is again this is what we're doing also for a 
system that is using an AI/ML component at the moment, only that now the difference 
is that as I said, we are deepening, do we need to do something extra, am I covering 
everything there? And this is a bit where? 
The I mean one of your question places like how much do I need to know 
about the ML/AI system at this point and I would say is. 
You need to know. 
The basics, but probably a little bit more than the basics. 
To really grasp what kind of attacks are there, so on the long run, but I don't know if 
this is interesting for you. I mean it it always goes in a direction in which everything 
becomes a little bit more standardised and in any case we're doing this not alone. 
You are doing this with a group of colleagues, so it's there's gonna always be 
somebody that does more insight into that part and can so. 
Well, the other in understanding if something is feasible, not feasible and so on and 
so forth. So it's not like everybody needs to have that kind of expertise. But of course 
understanding the basics really help you or understanding more than the basics. So 
there's a basics is almost needed because. It's like if you ask some security 
expert how much do you need to know about operating systems. 
I mean you need to know some basics. It's not like you have to know how to 
programme the kernel or change the kernel, but you need to know how an operating 
system works if you want to do a fair risk assess. Same thing applies with 
the AI. You don't need to develop your own AI component, but you need to know at 
least the basics on how it's working and then you're going to have an expert helping 
you, maybe defining the feasibility of attacks and that and whatnot.
 
Researcher   27:29 
So, to summarise the knowledge about machine 
learning security is so far optional because so far this expertise is rare.
Can we summarise it like this.
 
Interviewee   28:10 
It's the option in the sense that you're gonna have colleague that needs to know 
anyway, so you I don't think you can do a proper risk assessment without knowing 
anything about an AI component. So, I would say the basics need to be there. It is optional because 
you might want to do this together with another person that knows thr AI 
component.
 
Researcher   28:30 
Alright, so maybe brief briefly, which roles were involved in that risk assessment of, 
for example, in your last project, when you assessed the risk of a machine 
learning system?
 
Interviewee   28:54 
Are you at the product? 
You usually have the product owner. You have then the Security Officer or the security responsible person for that specific product can be like 
a SISO or something like that. And then, in our case it's called PSSO, but the security 
responsible the product owner. Then you have the security expert who is the one providing 
inside some the possible attacks and mitigation and then we have the the AI Expert.
 
Researcher   29:37 
Alright. And how do they?
 
Interviewee   29:37 
So this four figures multiplied by. 
More than one person per figure, so more than one security expert actually, more than 
one AI expert. But I mean, that's just an example.
 
Researcher   29:45 
And how do they interact? Are they all in one meeting or do they have 
separate meetings or?
 
Interviewee   30:00 
Oh, we are. I mean, yeah, no, that it's all in the same meeting. It's trying to to, to walk 
through the things together. 
I mean talking specifically about the TRA then it it happens, then you don't have 
maybe there. 
The security officer. So the psso because the psso is more the person that. 
Decides if to accept the risk or not. 
So it's more like all the other are providing the the final document and then the psso 
needs to accept this or not depending on what's in it.
 
Researcher   30:46 
Mm hmm. Could you repeat what's psso stands for, please?
 
Interviewee   30:50 
Product solution and security officer. So the one responsible for the security of a 
given product. I don't know if you can consider this like a CISO.
 
Interviewee   31:02 
It's that person responsible for security. 
In that specific family of products and so on.
 
Researcher   31:10 
But that is probably a company specific role. Or is that?
 
Interviewee   31:15 
PSSO, Yes. The CISO, no. This information Security office is more general. It's 
why I think it's fair to use it as a comparison. But the the CISO is usually caring 
about the security.
 
Interviewee   31:32 
Of. 
The internal part, so the company security not the product security. I 
don't know if there is any I should know probably, but yeah, I don't know that 
security responsible person for a product needs to be there. I think in every company 
that has a high degree of maturity.
 
Researcher   31:44 
No.
 
Interviewee   31:53 
I don't think you have that person in a SME if you would, but in [company] and in 
other big companies, you must have those figures where whatever they are called.
 
Researcher   31:57 
Yep. 
Yep, thank you. How did you document the risk assessment results?
 
Interviewee   32:09 
Of course.
 
Researcher   32:11 
No, how?
 
Interviewee   32:13 
How there is a file and we have this file being structured with several sections and 
you have to fulfill all the sections going from the architecture to the assumptions to 
the security goals to the attack scenarios, to the mitigations, to the risk metrics.
 
Researcher   32:41 
Mm hmm. So is it a specific programme or is it a Excel sheet?
 
Interviewee   32:48 
Yeah, we have both actually at the moment because. 
There is a the Excel file or Excel file is the one we are using	with all the fancy macros in it to just compute everything and now we are trying to move towards 
software solution that is basically embedding everything into software and just 
showing you the things you need to see.
 
Researcher   33:16 
So next question, how do you generally conduct risk assessment and hear the 
specific question is which system modelling types are applied to conduct risk 
assessment off an machine learning intensive sips or industry system?
 
Interviewee   33:41 
Yeah, but what do you mean about modelling types is like UML or?
 
Researcher   33:45 
Right. Is it? Yes, exactly. So are you using data flow diagrams or or system 
component diagrams? (Interviewee shakes his head)
 
Interviewee   33:53 
It's a it's it varies a lot. So you usually have an architectural perspective in which you 
show all the components and all the connections.
 But I wouldn't call it in a formal way like UML or or so it's. 
Yeah. 
I would say yeah, an architectural perspective and then the connections definitely. 
And then you have. 
Some functionalities being shown, but again I don't know if I would call it a 
functional diagram. So formally defined.
 
Researcher   34:32 
So what? 
If you have to compare it to UML diagram, type, which one would you choose?
 
Interviewee   34:44 
I I'm remembering all the UML diagrams that are there, which I don't.
 
Researcher   34:50 
OK, I see. OK, alright then. 
The the risk assessment slash threat modelling part. Which perspective do you 
usually select? Is IT system-, attack-, or asset-centric?
 
Interviewee   35:06 
Now it's definitely. 
I would say the starting point is the architecture, the system perspective. So because 
you have the components there and those are the software components there and 
you have the interfaces there. 
Through which all the components are connecting with one another, and that is the 
starting point for the discussion, because on top of that you usually start thinking, 
OK, what kind of threat scenarios I can have. 
For this component, for this interfaces and so on, and you build it from there. Then 
you go back and forth because in any case you're thinking about, I mean, especially if 
we're in security perspective, you are used to certain kind of attacks and you know 
that you want to in any case. 
Discuss those attacks most probably, and then you think about the attacks and then 
you start seeing where those attacks can hit your system. But I would say system-centric.
 
Researcher   36:09 
System centric and. 
This is also what you consider this as the right perspective for machine learning 
intensive systems.
 
Interviewee   36:26 
So. 
What I had. 
But it's this is really like something that we are discussing more than something that 
we have.
I found more interesting to start from a functional diagram that 
showed actually the activities ongoing and how data was changing, let's say in the system, rather than taking the actual component 'cause. It 
was more interesting for me to know that we have some data and input and that 
data will become a prompt and that prompts will be. I don't know. There have been 
some filtering steps here and there and then outside the the prompt is eventually 
ingested by the model and then you get out the actual results and then you get 
some filtering. But and and so on. And then you have all these operations basically happening on 
top of the data. And I had all these building blocks with the functions. So that was to 
me more insightful to understand where the attacker can do what rather than 
thinking in terms of software components and output components and that's all.
 
Researcher   37:53 

So, just a a follow up question. So you start regardless if it is machine learning a 
system with a machine learning component always with the system system 
perspective and then and then you look probably at the attacker perspective, right? 
So how can an attacker attack the machine learning model for example.
 
Interviewee   38:18 
Yes. 
Yes, in just a clarific I mean something to specify here. I mean you don't do. 
Trader risk cannot, so you are not likely to do a threat to risk analysis for what you 
consider a SIPS you will do a lot of threat and risk analysis for all the components, 
because usually we're talking about a big piece of software and an enterprise system 
that has several components and you're not going to do for the whole system.
Out of the blue, you're gonna do several TRAs and then. I mean, it's gonna be a big 
prospect. And then what I'm saying is that when you have an AI/ML component for 
that specific component, it's worth going through a functional diagram because I 
think that it's personal perspective. They can give you more insight. But that said, I'm 
not going to say, hey, the the system has this AI/ML component. So let's switch all 
together to a functional diagram in which I'm going to look at different things. So. 
It's more very much specified and that's why I wouldn't. It's difficult, it's usually 
system centric. But then what I'm claiming here is that when I see an AI/ML in a 
component, then I'm going to dig into that component, maybe using a functional 
diagram.
That is the specification I wanted to make.
 
Researcher   39:54 
Right, right. And. 
OK, so when when we just dig, as you would say for a aiml component, dig 
deeper into that perspective thing. So looking at the perspective at the AI 
components, you are first thinking about and this is probably subjective for you, but 
since you are specialising in ML risk assessment. 
You would probably start first thinking what an attacker can do to that machine 
learning component. 
 
Interviewee   40:30 
Yes, yeah, I said. I mean, the fact is that I studied already. 
Kind of attack scenarios and then if I go and do a new risk assessment, I already 
know what I would like to discuss. 
That doesn't say that I'm looking. As I said, looking at the functional diagram will give 
me some more insights. Say, hey, I find this specific thing happening here 
problematic. 
Because of this and that reason. 
But of course, I have some background that I'm carrying with me and then I will have 
that kind of perspective already in mind.
We'll also come with the experience, to be honest, because we haven't done so many 
of these threats and risk analysis yet to say this is the process. It's more of a learning 
phase.
 
Researcher   41:30 
No, no, it's OK because we just want to know what is the state-of-practice 
so far, right. So what our what our company's doing so it's more the system- or 
attacker-centric perspective, OK, because all right, no perfect. 
So which methodologies do you choose? 
For the the risk assessment, does it STRIDE? Is it PASTA? Is it TARA? Is it something 
completely different?
 
Interviewee   42:01 
So I think, but here I might be mistaken. I think the starting point of developing. 
The overall threat and risk analyse was STRIDE. 
But it has evolved into something more specific. That is, I think, custom-made. 
For [company] and for these internal PSS. 
But. 
And now, to be honest, I'm not sure if this is coming, so how much you can map to 
STRIDE at the moment.
 
Researcher   42:31 
And why do you think you're not just plainly using stride, but you 
made some adjustments to the methodology?
 
Interviewee   42:52 
Well, that's difficult to say. I would guess that. 
The way this process has evolved might take into account some peculiarities, some 
specific things of [company] internal processes. So, for example, we have a PLM process, 
product life cycle management. We have a project management process and this PSS 
process that is about risk assessment and security 
development. 
This process maps back to the PLM and to the PM, so it might be that there was a 
need of mapping to something else and that's that was the reason why people 
decided, OK, no, we cannot take this out of the box, but we need a custom 
version just to make sure that we are doing things. 
Aligned with the rest of the things we are doing.
But that's a guess. That's a guess.
 
Researcher   43:59 
No, no worries. If you could start from scratch, which threats assessment 
methodology would you say would be good for for assessing machine learning 
system?
 
Interviewee   44:15 
Yeah, I wouldn't know how to answer that question. So I mean usually, I mean 
generally speaking, the point is the following. I like when there is something out 
there that I can reference and use and right now. 
There are things popping up that might be helping in that direction. 
There are. 
What's the the? Yeah, NIST. 
There is a NIST document for like a risk management framework or something like 
that. 
Google has something there, so the point would be here to say OK, maybe 
Google is a company. I'm not sure if I I want to take exactly that, but NIST the OK 
NIST is an organisation. 
I will claim, OK. The best thing to do would be to take that.
Make it clear that we are starting from that point and then emphasise the differences 
because there are going to always be differences and and things that we have to do 
that are specific to [company]. But it would be better to say we don't have a custom 
process. We have NIST AI risk management framework or I don't remember how if 
it is called that way specifically. 
But it would be better to say, hey, we start from there and then we have some 
specific things.
 
Researcher   45:47 
Alright, OK, thank you. But during the threat modelling or risk assessment for a 
machine learning system, did you apply any curated attack repository such as ATLAS MITRE?
 
Interviewee   46:01 
Sure, that was definitely one of the main sources. I mean, there was the OWASP top 
ten that is to to a different level. 
NIFT(?) another document was called like adversarial machine learning, I 
think. 
Google has also had something like red team for this security framework, but for 
me specifically MITRE ATLAS  seem to be a safe choice. Very clear. I mean, we have been using [MITRE] ATT&CK for long. So that was a natural choice in my opinion.
 
Researcher   46:45 
A follow up question. When you were using it, was it helpful or did you have wishes 
or challenges when you applied Atas Mitra?
 
Interviewee   47:01 
No, it was it. It was good. So it depends. Oh, was it everything that I needed to know? 
But MITRE Atlas should remain an Atlas, so it should remain a taxonomy, not doing 
the risk assessment so. 
There are a lot of things that so I mean, what can you improve of the MITRE ATLAS? 
You can improve the coverage. 
And I would say definitely keep adding real scenarios real attacks, but that's what 
MITRE has been doing. This is how they collect their taxonomy. So I bet this is going 
to improve. This is going to be improved over time. 
What they can add is, for example, the likelihood of an attack happening. 
Information about the what are the the the most use? 
Threat Techniques in the wild, so some inform some more dynamic information on how 
things are evolving. 
There that I would find very, very convenient for threat and risk analysis. So yeah.
 
Researcher   48:24 
For the process, OK. Mm hmm. Then how often do you see the need to conduct 
threat modelling or risk assessment for a machine learning system and why?
Is it? 
Is it rather one time or do you think that should be a continuous process or should? 
Shouldn't there be any difference to to the regular approach to non- ML systems?
 
Interviewee   48:55 
Starting from the fact that every product and service should have a Threat and Risk 
analysis according to the process that we have and that means that if there is a 
component with the AI/ML, you should be doing a threat and Risk analysis on that component 
because of the overall threat and risk analysis that you are doing. But that I don't 
know if there is a rule about that. 
You have any way the need to repeat the thread on this analysis? I don't know. Like 
every 10 years. 
I think this is even specified. 
To now, I don't know if this is specified in any Regulation, but anyway you must 
do this. 
More than once, so this is already there. The point is that you do it, especially when it 
comes to big changes in the product. So if you add modifications, then you 
start doing this TRA again. And this is actually. 
Convenient also because then you take the whole TRA and you see how this is 
evolving over time so. 
Like you are redoing the whole thing, you are really updating the TRA. 
But I don't know if there is any rule for that. I would say there is more driven by the 
changes.
 
Researcher   50:17 
So, I refer here to the idea that. 
For example, large language models researchers come up with new and new threats 
quite frequently, and if you say that since that is the point that we need there is 
the need of a more continuous threats modelling approach in order to be aware, 
take that into account.
 
Interviewee   50:41 
Yeah, yeah. But then there you should be differentiating here because threat and risk 
analysis is something that you do when you are. 
When you are developing a product. 
I mean, you must have a Vulnerability management process in mind when you are delivering the product.
That what you were saying is not about doing another TRA is about doing the 
vulnerability management process, right. So you must account for dealing with 
vulnerabilities, patching, and so on and so forth. But that doesn't mean that you are 
doing a new TRA, a new threat and risk analysis. This is something different. 
Or I will intend this in a different way threat and risk analysis is more like. Let's take a step 
back and rethink about everything. Whereas if the a new vulnerability is out 
there, you just handle the vulnerability and do the patch management and that's it.
 
Researcher   51:26 
Which challenges occur during threat modelling or risk assessment for machine 
learning systems, and how are these challenges different from non machine learning 
systems?
 
Interviewee   52:02 
And the challenge is really that we don't have too many examples yet of attacks and 
we don't have that kind of experience yet to really assess the risk, right. 
And this is that something that will come with doing more and more of these things 
and collecting more and more information. So the challenge is really the lack of 
experience. 
In properly judging and assessing given situations.
 
Researcher   52:35 
Thank you. 
How do you select the appropriate defence mechanisms to protect machine learning 
intensive systems based on your threats, modelling or risk assessment?
 
Interviewee   52:48 
That's the real challenge at the moment, understanding what kind of protection. 
Countermeasures we can put in place. 
Because what we are doing is supplying. 
The standard protection measures we would apply for software in general, whereas maybe there is something more to be done. 
And. 
But that's not clear yet. So what kind of filtering, for example, you have to put up? 
At the gateway of the model like, is there anything that you don't have to push into 
the model because you know this can break the model? This is what we are 
thinking. 
And we are trying to understand at the moment.
 
Researcher   53:40 
And in general, how do you apply the results of the threats modelling or risk 
assessment in subsequent machine learning software development stages? So do 
you?
 
Interviewee   53:54 
But this is where your feedback, the results or the not not so much about the results, 
but really the lesson learned. Your feedback to the PSS process as a whole. 
Saying for example, hey, we, we were doing this TRA and then we realised that we 
were missing a protection role, for example, that was very important and then now 
that you know that you will start from that procession. 
Not starting necessarily, but you will include that protection goal in the next TRA 
since the beginning. 
It's like setting the stage right? So at the at the beginning of the TRA you want to set 
the stage saying everything that that the people need to know to really understand 
what what is going to happen.
 
Researcher   54:45 
Mm hmm.
 
Interviewee   54:46 
And that was sometimes we with the ML/AI, maybe we didn't have that right away and 
we had to figure out at a later point in time. 
And that would delay it, but. 
The the results are that the overall accomplishment of the TRA.
 
Researcher   55:07 
No, we are almost at the end. 
Which additional procedures had to be implemented after the initial security 
evaluation of the plant ML integration in your company before the plant integration 
was executed? For example, you have a system, a software system, and there it is 
plan to integrate a machine learning component and before this machine learning 
can be implemented and go to production. 
For example, the machine learning input monitoring needed to be implemented or 
another step had to be done. 
Which kind of procedures?
 
Interviewee   55:52 
Alright. I mean this is part, but this is more part of product development. So I'm not 
really. 
I cannot really answer the question in terms of. 
We are the one providing the so to say the problems to some extent because we are 
there saying, OK, now that I see what you want to do, I can tell you that this can be a 
problem and this can be a problem. We discussed the mitigations indeed in terms of 
OK now we we need to filter things here at the input we need to do something 
different but then the product owner  
together with, as I said, the PSS so needs to decide what to do and what would be 
the the next step. It's not up to us to decide and that can vary because can be like I 
don't care. 
Till I'll redo the whole system. So it's a very large standard possibilities.
 
Researcher   56:55 
Mm hmm. OK, but do you know any specific procedure that you maybe suggested 
that needs to be implemented before a machine learning? 
A machine learning component was integrated into a system and went to 
production. 
So for example. 
If you have a software system that works with external parties and. 
And this external parties are delivering inputs and this inputs are then fed to the 
machine learning model to do classification or... [interruption]
 
So, no suggested procedures were then forced to be 
introduced in order to monitor the inputs to a machine learning model.
 
Interviewee   58:45 
No, we didn't. So we didn't really provide. So we didn't say we we cannot really decide anything there saying. Yeah, 
you have to do this and that it's always a suggestion and what we suggested is to 
usually introduce some protection mechanisms in terms of filtering inputs, filtering outputs, so this 
was the the thing from the top of my head, let's say.
 
Researcher   59:16 
Mm hmm. Alright, so the final three statements that you need to fulfil this instruction 
is. 
One stands for insufficiently covered in my company, and 10 stands for very well 
covered in my company. So the first sentence is the ability to select fit for purpose 
machine learning models to include in your SIPS is...
 
Interviewee   59:45 
Sufficient. 
6.
 
Researcher   59:48 
The ability to evaluate security concerns machine learning components to include in 
your. 
SIPS is...
 
Interviewee   59:58 
Six, I would say so. We have the expertise and we are working towards improving.
 
Researcher   1:00:00 
Mm hmm the. 
Mm hmm alright, the ability to maintain the Machine Learning component in our systems is...
 
Interviewee   1:00:14 
That I wouldn't know how to answer to be honest, because I'm not maintaining any 
product. So, I guess we have the process in place to do that. So I would say save and 
eight because this must be must be following standard procedures.
 
Researcher   1:00:18 
Alright. 
Mm hmm. 
Right. Last point is would you have added something? What should have been 
mentioned in the interview?
 
Interviewee   1:00:40 
No, not from the top of my head at least.
 
Researcher   1:00:43 
Perfect. That. That's it. I I sorry that it took a little bit longer, otherwise I would have 
discussed with with you some some other things, but there is no time left. But the 
interview is is is done. Thank you for your time and I guess you need to head to your 
other meeting.
 
Researcher stopped transcription
