Time: 2024-05-06, 11:03 UTC
Interviewee: I04
Duration: 31m 34s

00:00:01 Researcher 1
OK, it's recording.
So, thank you for your time, first of all. And, as I said, we are starting
with the pre-interview questionnaire, and it is regarding your background.
So, what is your role in the company?

00:00:19 Interviewee
My role is AI engineer.
Do you want me to elaborate on that or what I have done previously?

00:00:25 Researcher 1
Yeah. If you want. Yes, sure.

00:00:30 Interviewee
So, I have been working previously at a different company as a data scientist,
currently now working as an AI engineer here, mostly working ...
The intention I have, I have been working here for three weeks, so not that long
time, but the intention to do, to work mostly with RAG solution. I guess you ask
questions if you want me to elaborate on something?

00:00:54 Researcher 1
Yes, exactly. It was just roughly for your background. So, could you summarise
like your experience roughly? 

00:01:09 Interviewee
Yes, sure. I have, I mean, I guess it's part of the experience as well, I worked at ...
Sorry, I studied computer science within machine intelligence,
at also a technical university and I was working a bit at [company] as a
business intelligence, yeah, with business intelligence and visualising data using
Power BI and so on, doing some analysis and so on.
Also working at a different company as a software developer with a Microsoft
CRM-based system for public entity in [country] and then also at
[company], working with time series analysis mostly, also done RAG solutions
and then continues here.

00:02:03 Researcher 1
Nice. Thank you. Did you have any experience, training or education in machine
learning security, or it is also called, adversarial machine learning?

00:02:14 Interviewee
No, no training.

00:02:16 Researcher 1
OK, so also not in the university, any subjects or anything?

00:02:19 Interviewee
As far as I can recall, I don't think so. I mean, I don't think so, no.

00:02:28 Researcher 1
OK, no, perfect.
Right now, we go over to the main part right.
So, could you briefly explain your understanding of the terms "machine learning"
and "security", ideally with an example. Yeah, separately.

00:02:43 Interviewee
OK, so machine learning, machine or computer learning from patterns of data,
making it able to take decisions, I guess. Something like that.
An example as well?

00:03:01 Researcher 1
No, it's fine.

00:03:03 Interviewee
Then, security then. In general, making sure that something is secure as
to make sure that not unauthorised persons get access or being able to
influence something. I mean, I guess it's quite kind of general or vague, but.

00:03:27 Researcher 1
Alright, that there's no right or wrong here. It's just like roughly checking
if we're on the same page and could you explain your understanding of
machine learning security?

00:03:36 Interviewee
Then, I guess it goes quite close to related to what I just said, but
making sure that not unauthorised persons or people can interact or have
influence over machine learning models.
"Secure", I'm not sure, I'm thinking now if making sure that the machine
learning models are also trained on relevant data is part of security or
not, but, such as: It shouldn't be biassed in certain, not sure if that speaks
for security? But, yeah.

00:04:15 Researcher 1
It goes in the right direction, yeah.
Then, which security goals are announced by your company's management
regarding machine learning systems?

00:04:26 Interviewee
Yeah, I think this is quite hard for me to answer. I said in the beginning,
I've been working here for three weeks, so I haven't been, how do you say,
in contact or we haven't talked about it. [inaudible]

00:04:44 Researcher 1
Right, right, ok.
Then, why do you consider security aspects of machine learning components in
your machine learning systems? Maybe ideally in your last project.
So, I mean now you didn't have one, per se, but maybe in the previous one you worked.

00:05:05 Interviewee
So how do I consider security in my machine learning projects?

00:05:08 Researcher 1
Yes. So, what kind of role does it play in the design phase,
for example, like the access to data, or access to the machine learning model per se
and what are the access protocols, for example? So, how important was that?

00:05:28 Interviewee
This is also, I guess, a bit hard to answer because I haven't really delivered
a sort of machine learning solution in production. We have mostly, in my previous
company, delivered proof of concepts where, of course, you have, you think of the
security aspect as that you need to make sure that it's delivered and fulfilled
in the production solution.

00:06:00 Researcher 2
So basically, just to clarify, I think my understanding is that:
Security is not really important when you're doing the proof of concept?
Is that what you are saying?

00:06:10 Interviewee
I would say it's not as high priority as if you deliver a solution in production.
You still need to address some and this I guess this is also my question:
Do we want to consider the aspect of making sure that the solution is not biassed,
is that part of security in your idea? Or is it just? Or is it not?

00:06:35 Researcher 1
No, it's also part of it. So basically, biassing a machine learning model in that
example has something to do with the training data that is available, right?

00:06:47 Interviewee
Yeah, exactly.

00:06:48 Interviewee
So, it's just a shard I would say. So, we can either bias the data which can be
used for malicious purposes as well or any other, like, variation of that point.
So yes, data quality or the cleanness of data and we would be also interesting.

00:07:04 Interviewee
Yeah, yeah. Because I guess because, yeah, for one of my previous projects
where we did time series analysis, we went, [a] large aspect of the project
was to go through various data sources that we would leverage then and try
and see what could be part of the model. So, for those we, so, we didn't follow
sort of a security protocol, but we really, we wanted to deliver a really robust
model. So, we really went into talking to a lot of businesspeople to really
find data sources that would, in the business aspect, be useful to the model.
So, I mean, in some way you could say that would ensure that you find relevant
data that the model is trained on so.
But to also to answer your question: The security aspect is not as important
for a PoC solution, but I guess you have it in mind, but you're not following,
or we weren't following a protocol to ensure anything.

00:08:18 Researcher 1
OK, so what's more intuitive in the way that you looked at the data sources
per se?

00:08:25 Interviewee
Yeah. I mean, that's specifically, exactly.
But other than that, I mean, to my knowledge of, I can't come up with other
things we did related to security in terms of the PoC solution.

00:08:40 Researcher 1
So, what kind of models did you use? Like for example in your previous project:
What kind of models have you applied?

00:08:48 Interviewee
So, I have used, so, when I worked in my previous employment, we were highly
regulated on what models we could use, and the models were assessed by the company.
So, we used ARIMA and Prophet, Facebook Prophet or and another one not as commonly
known called BSTS, which is a Bayesian Structural Time Series, I think it stands for.
Those were the thing, those were the ones we used for the latest project.
I have also used, like for previous projects, random forest and like GBM and
XGBoost and solutions like that.

00:09:30 Researcher 1
So, it's a mix of shallow machine learning, deep learning, and RAGs also have
something in common with large language models, right? 

00:09:37 Interviewee
Yeah, yeah, of course, of course.

00:09:38 Researcher 1
OK, but. All right, perfect.

00:09:41 Interviewee
And I was thinking about one thing now, what was it? Yeah, maybe I'll

00:09:48 Researcher 1
It's fine. So OK, maybe I will still ask that question, which role did the machine
learning models play in the overall security of your machine learning system?
So, you said, OK, you had some protocols. But, was there anything else what was
also considered? Maybe you were not directly involved, but you know that maybe
other roles were involved, for example?

00:10:21 Interviewee
Can you give an example, or?

00:10:24 Researcher 1
That you for example, that you said that models that were used were assessed by
the company previously

00:10:34 Interviewee
Yes.

00:10:34 Researcher 1
And that you intuitively looked into data sources that they were too confidential
to some degree. But do you know if there was some sort of testing team that was
trying to maybe find specific data entries that would make the model behave
differently, for example, or anything like that? So, was there a dedicated
security team that looked into the topic of machine learning?

00:11:06 Interviewee
I understand. No, so we didn't have any, any team looking at the model from a
security perspective trying to see if there were, yeah, negative aspects.
There's better words, but, yeah.
But looking at the security aspect of the solution, we had a lot of businesspeople
looking into the performance of the model to ensure that it generated relevant
responses, uh, forecasts.
But we didn't have a security team looking into to those aspects, so.

00:11:45 Researcher 1
Maybe also following up on the data source where the models that you used, did
they use reinforcement learning as well or were they updated to some degree, or?

00:11:58 Interviewee
No. They were retrained every month, given that you get, it's a time series
forecasting, you get newer data every month as it was monthly-for-monthly forecasts.
But there was no reinforcement learning. But they were retrained every month.

00:12:14 Researcher 1
OK. All right. And was the data that was used for retraining also screened
or anything or just used?

00:12:22 Interviewee
No, it was not screened. It wasn't looked at. I mean, it's also, it was part
of a PoC, right? So, we did the initial model training and came up with a set
of data points that were going to be used in the model.
And though so for the retraining, we didn't add new data to the model,
it was just still the sort of subset of the signals or the data points
that we have concluded from the initial phase. But the new, so, the new data
points for the given features, or signals, or, yeah, they stay the same.

00:13:06 Researcher 1
All right. Thank you. So, for the next question, we distinguish between two
scenarios. The first one is, and it goes more into the threat modelling direction
now, where we're looking into scenario 1 where machine learning component is
already integrated into a system.
And scenario 2 is that, basically, a machine learning model or component is
planned to be integrated into a production system.
So, this is probably a difficult question for you, but I'll maybe, maybe we will
scratch some experience you had, maybe not directly, but indirectly.
What is the difference in security aspect assessment of already implemented machine
learning system and the planned approach to integrate the machine learning component
into system production.

00:14:11 Interviewee
So, I understand the question. I guess it you're also interesting to hear if I
have been, I mean, what I have done previously if I came to this, but I haven't done.
So, I guess yeah, I can reason. So, you say you say either have a system with 
an integrated ML component contra a system where the system is already existing,
and you want to integrate a component and how you would then apply the different
security assessment?

00:14:47 Researcher 1
It's fine if you say like, OK, you have no experience

00:14:50 Interviewee
I have no experience, so I mean if you after the experience part, yeah.

00:14:54 Researcher 1
Unless you have like some sort of, I don't know if you've experienced it in
an indirect way that you were part of, like a project stage and then you were,
it was explained to you that after before happened XYZ that might refer to this
question. But if not, that's fine.
Have you ever conducted a risk assessment of a machine learning system?

00:15:32 Interviewee
No.

00:15:33 Researcher 1
No? OK. Then if, yeah, maybe in your last project, you know about a risk
assessment? Do you know if any people were involved that had, that were familiar
with machine learning security or were those just security guys?

00:15:54 Interviewee
So again, if I had any people in the previous projects that has ...?

00:15:57 Researcher 1
So, if you were aware of the situation that there was a risk assessment
of a machine learning system.

00:16:01 Interviewee
Yeah, yeah, yeah. OK, yeah. Yeah.
So, no, I haven't been. I mean, for the project I have delivered, we had no,
there has not been any sort of, yeah, risk assessments for the model.

00:16:13 Researcher 1
OK. All right. All right, then we can skip this. This as well. And alright.

00:16:27 Interviewee
I think it also, for, because, maybe this can add some value, maybe not directly
to question, but when we have done the sort of, for example PoCs for this time
series forecasting or for one of the RAG solutions, it, usually, when you deliver
the PoC, comes to the conclusion at the end of the PoC that, OK, how would these
results be leveraged. And given how successful the project is looked at, then you
might take different ways. So, for example, if you want it to be support in
decision making or if you should trust the predictions completely and so on,
and depending on what you conclude at the end of the PoC, you will then take
different ways and move ahead with the risk assessment, that sort of stage
after the PoC. It is usually how it has been.

00:17:24 Researcher 1
Interesting. Yeah. So, the next part would be about the defence mechanisms,
and I would like to stick to what you already reported regarding the data sources,
right? So, was there the case that you identified the data source that was maybe not
so trustworthy and what were then the defence mechanisms? Have you?

00:17:50 Interviewee
Yeah, yeah. So, my previous employer, we had sort of a, you could call it a databank,
that was, that automated a small step with collecting open-source data and doing some,
not feature engineering, but structuring the data and saving it, yeah, to our own
databank. You could have like API calls, essentially just storing data. So, when you
did feature engineering and assessed what features you wanted to have in your model,
you could go to that databank, or whatever you want to call it, and look for features
that could help in your model or that data. So, there were some assessments on there
that I don't know what they did. But then you had, uh, you could, yeah, like a set of
data that you could use. But it was open-source data, so in some way it's not, yeah,
I'm not sure how we phrased it, but not so ...

00:19:02 Researcher 1
Trustworthy?

00:19:02 Interviewee
Ttrustworthy, exactly.

00:19:03 Researcher 1
So, OK. So just to recap, so you had the database or a databank that basically you were
consulting if you needed data, which was open source, as you said, but there was no
assessment of the trustworthiness of the data source that are then part of the database?

00:19:26 Interviewee
Yeah. So, I don't know, I'm not aware of exactly what was done, but you weren't allowed
to just ingest whatever's in there. So, but it was a global one. So, my previous employer
was a very large global actor, or, yeah, however, you want to anonymize it later, but.
And so, it was done on a global level. So, I don't know what they did, but I'm sure that,
I know that you weren't allowed to just have anything you want there, but I don't know
what they did. But it was open-source data, and it was data sources like, for example,
Eurostat. So, it was quite commonly known data sources. But then again, it's open-source,
so, not only for security, but you don't have any influence of whether they will stop
providing the data source and so on, which is a different risk for machine learning
models, if you rely on open-source data.

00:20:24 Researcher 2
Basically, you are not sure whether you will get the same data with the same quality even?

00:20:28 Interviewee
No, or structure even, they might [inaudible]. Yeah, exactly.
So that was a that was a, sort of a large risk in our project.

00:20:42 Researcher 1
Right. So, you were mostly involved, for example, with your last employer in the PoCs?

00:20:48 Interviewee
Yes.

00:20:48 Researcher 1
OK. So, for the PoCs, there were no involvement of threat modelling or any security
assessment or whatsoever, not directly, right? 

00:21:08 Interviewee
No. And I'm not sure, I mean, I don't have much experience in this area, but, not 
sure if that is something that's usually part of PoC, because PoC is also something
where you want to prove a concept, right? So, you I guess you don't want to take too
big, I mean, and take too much work or too much ...

00:21:26 Researcher 2
It's a quick and dirty solution just to see how that works.

00:21:29 Interviewee
Yeah, it is because you don't want to build, I mean this is not a production solution.
You, but I mean, you don't want to do too much work if you realise that it's not
something that they're worth proceeding with, right? So, yeah.

00:21:42 Researcher 1
And what's your opinion about that? So, is it the right way to do it, or would you
think that should be more security involved in the PoC process as well?

00:21:53 Interviewee
I guess it also depends on how you use the PoC result later.
Because some different companies have different policies when it comes to a PoC
and then a production solution. Some might think that you want to rebuild the whole
solution when you have proof, when the PoC is done, you realise you want to proceed
with this, they rebuild the whole solution. And some just wants to tweak this
existing PoC and then move to production.
So, I would say it depends on what workflow you have and what policies you have,
moving from a PoC to production.
If you want to rebuild it, I guess it's fine having the PoC as it is, perhaps.
If you want to tweak it, then, yeah, you might need to, and take some, and
consider more things in the PoC, such as security, yeah, depending on how you
want to move ahead with it afterwards. But, I mean, I still think, because in my
opinion it's, I think PoCs might sometimes tend to grow too large and then you
just tweak them and go to production, sort of. I think better would be maybe
to have the PoC, let them be simple and fast and then you almost rebuild it when
you go with the production solution.

00:23:09 Researcher 2
That's actually a problem that is not generally for machine learning.

00:23:13 Interviewee
No. [affirmative]

00:23:13 Researcher 2
There was this very nice phrase I read somewhere that when POCs become
products, it's a general problem that you start creating something just
to see whether it works or not. And then it stays. It becomes the product itself.

00:23:37 Interviewee
Exactly.

00:23:39 Researcher 2
And the smaller things that you said, OK, we need to, we don't need to
consider this, because we it's just to show when things work, but then
you basically start working on top of that and then it becomes part of that
system. I was reading this in a paper regarding technical debt, actually, that ...
Are you aware of technical debt?

00:24:06 Interviewee
Yeah. I mean, in general, perhaps, but it depends on what ...?

00:24:10 Researcher 2
So basically, when you do quick and dirty solutions, you say I
will come and fix it because right now I don't need it. Either, it's because,
it can be because of like, let's say we don't have time, so let's just
deliver and then we come back and fix it. Sometimes you don't know.
Sometimes it's like it's a PoC. We don't need to do this right now,
or something like that. So, it's like problems that you're aware of in
your system and you promise that, I will come back and fix it, right?
And this of course extends to anything related to software engineering,
security included.

00:24:44 Interviewee
Yeah, exactly.

00:24:45 Researcher 2
And I, at least from what I see, the now I can link those two ideas that
it's the same problem with the machine learning PoCs as well. So, you
don't like we are doing just a PoC and then it ends up becoming the product.

00:25:01 Interviewee
Yeah, exactly. Because you mean you invest some money in the from a
company's point of view, you invest some money in a PoC, you get to
see the product and if you're not a technical person, what you see is what
you want, perhaps, and depending on what it has been delivered and
you feel like it, but I could just use this, right?
And then going to a production you want to, yeah, don't want to rebuild
because you have done a lot of work already and the investment would
then of course be higher if you can't reuse it.
So, I mean, I'm not surprised that's how it's been, but, sometimes.

00:25:35 Researcher 1
So, I mean we can stick also to the PoC topic.
Have you noticed or were you aware of your PoC that you built or were
part of the team building it that it wasn't used in production because
of a risk assessment that happened afterwards?

00:25:57 Interviewee
No, I haven't. That hasn't happened during my projects.
I mean, I totally understand the question, but no.

00:26:07 Researcher 1
Because then it would be interesting to know if that happened,
then I mean now, it's conjunctive, right? But to, the question would be
then should the person building the PoC also be aware of those security
factors? And like before actually building the PoC. That could be relevant,
right?

00:26:30 Interviewee
Yeah, I mean, depends on, yeah, I mean, I can totally see the need or the
use of having a risk assessment earlier.
If, I mean, if you delivered the PoC you realise you would have needed
to do this to, I mean, if you think of that for you build the PoC and then
you redo it, and you build the production solution with all the necessary
risk assessments, you might see that you would have done things differently
if you knew that already when you did the PoC.
Then of course it would be good to have it much earlier.
And I guess, perhaps that always happens? Perhaps not. I don't know.
Right, perhaps. Depends on the project.

00:27:18 Researcher 1
I mean you; you answered it partially as well. So, if the person building
the PoC already knows where it is placed and the risk assessment was
already done around the component where it should be and the surrounding,
then you can also act accordingly on those security assessment results
within the PoC.
But if there is none, then obviously cannot be done right.
But PoC as a quick and dirty solution. Yeah. No. Perfect. Thank you.

Right. So, the last part of the interview is future needs and wishes,
and the instructions are easy. So, you just give a you just give a number.
So, 1 stands for "insufficiently covered in my company". Based on your
early entrance to the company, we can just use your previous employer.
I think that's fine too, unless you know it for your current employer.
And 10 means "very well covered in my company".
But you can choose a range in between 1 and 10, right.
So, the ability to select fit-for-purpose, machine learning components or models
to include in machine learning system and production is ...?

00:28:30 Interviewee
So, the ability?

00:28:31 Researcher 1
Yeah.

00:28:34 Interviewee
And do you want me to elaborate on it or should I just pick a number?

00:28:37 Researcher 1
You can just pick a number and then elaborate if you want because we have time.

00:28:41 Interviewee
Yeah, sure. So, now I'm thinking more towards the previous employer,
and I would say that maybe a 3.
And the reason being that I was limited in what models I could use
because it had to be assessed by the company before we were allowed to use
them. So, we were quite limited in what we could use.

00:29:04 Researcher 1
Right, OK. And did that assessment involve any form of security or
trustworthiness?

00:29:11 Interviewee
And, that's also part of what I don't know what has been, what they
did for the assessment. We were just, so, we weren't allowed to use any models.
We were allowed to choose from a pool of models.

00:29:22 Researcher 1
Right, right.

00:29:25 Researcher 2
Pre-selected.

00:29:26 Interviewee
Yeah.

00:29:26 Researcher 1
All right. No, perfect. Thank you.

00:29:27 Interviewee
And not, yeah, I don't know what risk assessment they did when they assessed
the models.

00:29:33 Researcher 1
But you also don't know if they did a risk assessment?

00:29:36 Interviewee
Not specifically a risk assessment, but they did an assessment,
so they assessed the models, not sure how.

00:29:39 Researcher 1
Right. OK. OK, alright. No, perfect.
The ability to evaluate security concerns, machine learning components
to include in your machine learning system in production ...?
The ability to evaluate security concerns ...?

00:30:00 Interviewee
The ability to evaluate security concerns?
And this is also what was provided by, mh. It's hard to answer.

00:30:12 Researcher 1
OK, that's no problem.
The ability to maintain the machine learning component in a machine
learning system in production is ...?

00:30:26 Interviewee
I would say not harder than, yeah. Maybe 7?
Also, that you get quite a lot of, uh, support if you use for example,
cloud providers such as Azure, you have, what do you say, start support
and resources for doing that as well.

00:30:57 Researcher 1
Thank you. And the last question, any points that should have been
mentioned in this interview, that you think they were missing.

00:31:10 Interviewee
No. No, I don't. I don't think so. I mean it's a bit hard, of course
haven't had that much experience in this. So, it's hard to add some anything.

00:31:30 Researcher 1
No perfect, then, this is it. Thank you for your time.
