Time: 2024-03-27, 12:07 UTC
Interviewee: I01
Interviewer: Researcher 1
Duration: 49m 39s

[0:00:09 Researcher 1]
Thank you, [I01], first of all, that you are participating in this pilot
interview. And we'll start with some backgrounds into the questions.
[Question 1]
So question #1 is, what is your role in the company? Could you briefly describe
your role, please?

[0:00:28 I01]
My role is security consultant. I'm working for business units from a central
organizational point of view of [company]. I'm supporting business units within
[company] with their security processes, in part with a particular focus on
products that are subsequently sold to external customers.

[0:00:52 Researcher 1]
Thank you.
[Question 2]
How many years of experience did you collect over your professional career, in
your current position and in the previous stations?

[0:00:59 I01]
I've been with [company] for eight years now. In my current position, I'm
working in a similar domain for four years now as an [company] employee.
Formerly more focused on [company]-internal services, the last four years more
focus on [company] products.

[0:01:25 Researcher 1]
Perfect. Thank you.
[Question 3]
Did you have any experience, training, or education in machine learning security
or adversarial machine learning?

[0:01:35 I01]
Training, except for university studies, where this was a course back then, no
additional trainings.

[0:01:44 Researcher 1]
OK, perfect. Thank you.
And this was the pre-questions regarding your backgrounds. Thank you so much for
answering that. Now we're gonna go over to the main interview questions.
[Question 4]
So could you briefly explain your understanding of the terms "machine learning"
and "security", ideally with an example, please?

[0:02:10 I01]
Machine learning is to me the logical consequence of mathematical statistics
where certain, where data is used to identify patterns, or certain, yeah,
logical consequences, once again, and to derive new information from given data.
In that case, probably, at this point in time, mostly used is the term
artificial intelligence, nowadays a lot connected also to large language models,
once again. So I think a lot of these terms are mixed up with each other. Most
famous in that case probably would be ChatGPT, I guess.
Security-wise, security is the protection of, or the insurance of certain
protection goals of a product, system, service or solution. Also, mostly defined
by confidentiality, integrity and availability. Includes the measures, but also
to protect a certain product, but also processes for the entire life cycle of
these products in order to, in the end, achieve a product that fulfils our
initially designed properties.

[0:03:39 Researcher 1]
Was the textbook answer and that's really nice. So this question is not,
the main purpose of this question is not to quiz you in any way, but just like
to see if we are on the on the same page regarding the terminologies. So thank
you for that.
[Question 5]
Could you explain your understanding of "machine learning security", ideally
with an example, please?

[0:04:05 I01]
Machine learning security, is actually, terminology-wise, a bit hard for me.
Because there is a differentiation. Because you have machine learning for
security and you have some machine learning, security of machine learning. I
suppose and interpret that you're talking about security for machine learning.
So talking about products, services or solutions that utilize machine learning
to achieve certain goals and the insurance of a secure behavior of this
component or entire product, yeah, in the context of security, so once again,
certain properties like confidentiality, integrity and availability for machine
learning. This might even be extended to additional properties, depending on the
use case.

[0:04:57 Researcher 1]
Thanks. Thank you.
[Question 6]
Which security goals are announced by your company's management regarding
machine learning?

[0:05:07 I01]
There is no dedicated security goals announced just for machine learning. We
have general security goals that should be achieved for all products, which is,
and also transparent, and once again confidentiality, integrity and
availability. In addition, there are certain sub-properties which can be
achieved by all of that, including for example, trustworthiness, reliability,
aspects like non-reputation [sic], non-replayability and so on, authenticity,
obviously. So, a lot of additional ones. For machine learning in particular,
there are no additional security goals mentioned at this point in time.

[0:05:59 Researcher 1]
[Question 6a]
Alright, so the next question would have been how does your organisation support
machine learning security. So, yeah, so I think we're going to skip that, since
you explained that we have, that you have a rather generic approach towards
security, unless you derive already some machine learning security properties
that were part, or are part in the product development.

[0:06:30 I01]
What there is for machine learning, in particular are guidances on how to treat
machine learning, AI and so on in particular. And this for example covers threat
scenarios which are exclusively applicable to machine learning systems, or
particularly important for these type of systems.

[0:06:56 Researcher 1]
[Question 7]
But that's actually almost a perfect bridge to the next question. So here comes
a short explanation from my side because we are looking at Software Intensive
Products and Services and this term follows, looks at software systems that
fulfil the following requirements: So one it is large and complex; it's subject
to numerous engineering practices; and the software system of that kind is
placed in a dynamic environment, a lot of users, a lot of requirements and
regulations that the system is subject to. So one example for such a system is
for example a Spotify app. Any sort of industrial controller. And not a Software
Intensive Product or System is a toy example you would use in a study and to lab
experiments on it. So that is not a Software Intensive Product or System. In
short: SIPS.
Right. Question #7: Why do you consider security aspects of machine learning
components in your SIPS? For example, during your last project?

[0:08:17 I01]
"Why" or "how"?

[0:08:20 Researcher 1]
Why.

[0:08:21 I01]
OK. Traditionally, you have certain requirements that apply to all products,
regardless of where or what particularly the product does. There are certain
things that must be ensured for all products to ensure, on the side of the
producer, in this case, namely [company], to ensure certain properties there,
also, to achieve trust, achieve transparency and so on towards the outside
world. And therefore there are certain practices that apply to all products to
achieve a certain level of quality.

[0:09:05 I01]
And however, there are domains where, which are rather new or have been recently
developed, have recently gained a lot of attention, and therefore will be part
of new products. With [company] trying to be as innovative as possible for their
customer, once again, there is a necessity to ensure that we also have the
expertise for novel technologies and therefore there are certain criteria that
must be applied whenever novel technology is used.

[0:09:50 I01]
This was, I don't know, ten years ago that was the topic of cloud. Nowadays it's
a lot the topic around large language models, AI, machine learning and so on.
And big data was another big and important topic. And whenever you encounter
such a topic, even experienced developers with dozens of years of experience
might have not the necessary experience to securely deal with these
technologies. Therefore, experts are required to guide these developers in their
day-to-day work and in their practice, with, well, additional guidance on how to
securely manage that. And for these type of products and projects, we have
experts that focus on researching and also focus on supporting the product
development. Therefore, this is the reason why also, whenever we're dealing with
novel technologies, there is an expert for that topic, and with respect to
security as well, to ensure that the same level of quality can be delivered by
[company].

[0:11:16 Researcher 1]
Thank you.
[Question 8]
And what kind of machine learning models are applied in your systems?

[0:11:26 I01]
Actually, I can't tell you that precisely, because machine learning is used at
many different areas. Obviously, [company] is a major enterprise has areas
healthcare, digital industry, mobility and so on. So there are a lot of
different models applied and I can only tell you about the models that we have
been recently using and that is mostly the area of Generative AI. So this is
something that's used a lot nowadays, I would say.

[0:12:06 Researcher 1]
Mm hmm. OK, perfect. So I mean, I wanted to specify the the question a little
bit, what you work with, or what your last project involved in in that matter.
But  since you already answered, it's generative AI, I understand. OK. Perfect.
Thank you.
[Question 9]
And next question is: What role does the security of your machine learning
models play for the overall security in your systems?

[0:12:38 I01]
There is traditionally a change also going through [company] affecting this
particular aspect. When we look at the product security life cycle of products
within [company], there are two central steps that are important for all
components that are used. That is first of all, a proper selection of supplier
and third-party components. So the step before you even, or the step for
selecting a certain component and deciding in favour of that component. And
subsequently, the management of this component, including for example
vulnerability management, patch management and so on. So before we select
something and while we use it. These two processes mainly exist and also affect
machine learning components as they are often treated as a component of a bigger
system or providing certain services to an entire product. So, rarely, a product
consists exclusively of machine learning, but there are other components,
including for example, web interfaces or dashboards having data storage and so
on. So the machine learning component itself is just one component of many of a
typical product that we have.

[0:14:00 I01]
However, there is also a change in ... So, traditionally, how was that treated?
Well, as a third party component, we need to ensure that it's securely
developed, it has, fulfils our security demands and also the results it produces
are trustworthy at this point. However, more and more products are actually
consisting mainly of machine learning components or where the main component is
machine learning and everything around it just supports this process. In these
cases, a deeper look is required, because the machine learning itself and its
tweaking might be the product itself and this for also, for example, the
intellectual property. And this is something which is currently a lot discussed
and how to deal with these systems that are not only, where machine learning is
not only part of the product, but is the product itself.

[0:15:09 Researcher 1]
That's perfect. Thank you.
[Question 10]
And next question, so a little bit of context for you. We are looking here. It's
two scenarios. Scenario 1 is if a machine learning integration or a component is
already implemented into the system. And then Scenario 2 is that a machine
learning component is planned to be included within industrial software system
or "SIPS", as I explained earlier. And question #10 builds upon that context.
Which is what is the difference in security aspect assessment of already
implemented machine-learning-intensive software systems and a planned machine
learning integration into industrial software system?

[0:16:03 I01]
OK. And, once again, a little bit of background: Traditionally, we do not
encounter systems that are have suddenly machine learning implemented. But if
you develop a product, there is a certain process that has to be followed like
any other company has a secure development process. And therefore, the knowledge
that the product will in the end have machine learning, or will have a machine
learning component is already discussed before it is even implemented and
therefore also the security of these components are considered before they are
implemented. Therefore, the case that a component, that we encounter something,
we have a product and, for whatever reason, we suddenly have machine learning in
there, does not exist. So my interpretation, just as an explanation, differs and
that far. First of all, we in our process typically before we even add machine
learning and have it planned, we do a regular assessment of that component,
which means we look into the supplier over the model and the component itself,
ensure the security properties of these components. Then it is implemented. And,
traditionally, after it is implemented and we need to have a look again for
verification and validation and integration tests, for example. And for these
things also, again, multiple activities are conducted, including threat and
risk analysis, penetration tests, if you go into the practical direction and so
on. So a lot of subsequent theoretical and practical testing and risk
assessments.

[0:17:53 Researcher 1]
Maybe one follow-up questions to that. Did you experience already some add-on
steps regarding machine learning components during the assessment of the
security of software that includes machine learning components in [company]?

[0:18:25 I01]
But the question, again, does that affect the 1st or the 2nd step? So before it
was implemented, or if it's already implemented? Which of the two assessments
are you referring to?

[0:18:37 Researcher 1]
Now. OK, I need to clarify that. OK, so we are looking at the planned machine
learning integration.

[0:18:47 I01]
Obviously this highly depends on the components. You cannot assess a database
for the same criteria you would assess a file storage or you would assess, I
don't know, a Python library. That's not working out. Therefore, also machine
learning component is treated differently and with respect to the technology,
because, well, the protection of certain goals or the protection of security
properties just differentiates for machine learning, in this case, once again.
So, yes, the assessment itself for or against selecting a certain machine
learning component differentiates from other, from the assessment of other
components.

[0:19:35 Researcher 1]
And did you, sorry again, another follow-up question, because I'm curious. Since
we have also certain evolution, probably, of risk assessment towards machine
learning models, because more and more threats are coming into play and are
discovered. So, did you realize that there are more specific questions or
assessment steps that are needed which were then reapplied to already
implemented machine, so to systems that already implemented machine learning
components, so that there was a reassessment needed?

[0:20:24 I01]
And actually there is [laughs], it's, this is maybe not the case as you would
expect it. Because within the life cycle you have, you always have regular
reassessments of the products just because the threat changes. So you have
different attackers, a different threat landscape and so on. So a regular
reassessment of your product is absolutely crucial, regardless of whether it has
a machine learning component or not. But if there is, in subsequent talking
about continuous development, and if it is decided that there is an add-on of
machine learning, of a machine learning component needed and it shall be
implemented, it's also considered in the risk assessment with a particular set
of questions or remarks to this specific component. So, I would suggest, yes,
that's indeed the case, but typically it's already part of the regular life
cycle, because if I continue the development and change something, I need to
reassess; if there is a certain time, if a certain time has passed, I need to
reassess just because the world is changing. And so, we, as security, have to
[laughs].

[0:21:24 Researcher 1]
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Perfect. Because the last question would then be
irrelevant to ask. And based on this, this answer of yours.
[Question 11a]
OK, now we're gonna jump a little bit deeper into the risk assessment and. I'll
start with: How relevant was the familiarity with machine learning, security and
the domain system under consideration before conducting risk assessment of a
software system that includes a machine learning component, in your last
project?

[0:22:21 I01]
So, to rephrase it to the importance that somebody is familiar, or is familiar
with the technology itself, in order to do a risk assessment on the technology?

[0:22:33 Researcher 1]
Exactly.

[0:22:35 I01]
OK, in this case, answer once again: As security experts, it's hard to be an
expert in every domain, so as part of the risk assessment, you always have
experts for the respective technology. This implies that you, as a security
person, are not the only one sitting in a room and doing a risk assessment, but
you have a group full of technical experts, business representatives, and so on,
and contributing to a risk assessment, and therefore you also, typically, have
experts in the technology there.

[0:23:12 I01]
However, I would say that at a certain level of knowledge about a technology
highly benefits the assessment process because you get a feeling about typical
problems, typical issues that can be encountered and know where the weak spots
of such a system is. So my answer to that question would be: I see a certain
level of importance, but I don't consider it crucial that you're an expert in
the technology in order to do a risk assessment as security representative or
responsible.

[0:23:58 Researcher 1]
OK, so you already answered the next sub-question which was ...

[0:24:02 I01]
I'm talking too much. I see. [laughs]

[0:24:03 Researcher 1]
No, no, no, no, no, no, it's it's really perfect because I mean my questions are
not perfect at all. So but it's really good that you talk a lot because that's
the idea of the interview: As many information as possible.
[Question 11ai]
Because you were already referring to roles. I'm wondering how those roles
interact during the risk assessment? Are they already part of the development,
is it, again part, of the life cycle? And how do those roles interact?

[0:24:40 I01]
Within a development project for a product or particular product with a lot of
software in it, a lot of different roles continuously collaborate. As major
roles, I would see technical experts, or when we're talking about a security
point of view, and you obviously have experts from a security domain and they
are experts on different levels. So you might be an expert for security in
general and have no clue about, or might be an expert for risk management and
have no clue about the technology itself. On the other hand, you might be a
security expert for certain technology, I don't know, a certain programming
language, for example, but have not the slightest clue about risk management.
So when we're talking about roles, these collaborate all the time, I would say.
However, for certain activities in the life cycle, you might need experts for
that particular expertise, especially if you have an unexperienced group. What I
see a lot is that, especially when you're trying to build excellence in
developers and try to build them up yourselves and teach them, you typically
need to support them security-wise by somebody that can guide them, that can
help them and, well, support them in general. So what I would would say is, most
of these roles regularly collaborate; some roles only collaborate on certain
activities. And when we're talking about business representatives, these roles
mainly collaborate during activities where business-relevant decisions have to
be taken. So: Can a risk be accepted or not? What is the impact of a certain
attack scenario for the business? And how can certain investments be conducted?
In these cases the business must be included. For a day-to-day work, when we're
talking really about product development and hands-on development, I would
rather see technical security experts for the respective domain and
practitioners, so architects, developers, project managers and so on,
collaborating with each other.

[0:27:19 Researcher 1]
OK, sounds like a lot of communication, but I think that's key.
[Question 11b]
The next part is: How did you document the risk assessment results in, for
example, your last project? How?

[0:27:40 I01]
There are two, so there are multiple techniques that can be used and it has a
differentiates in the preference of the participants. So there are localized
tools, in particular sheets, so Excel sheets that can be used for the risk
assessment. And there is also a system, an application that can be used for the
risk assessment. So, you can theoretically also do them on whiteboards and then
subsequently document them accordingly. So it highly depends on what you prefer
to use. In the end, it is represented by the remaining risk, accompanied by the
documentation you decided for. Because somebody's taking the risk, typically a
business representative, and the way they need to track their risk as part of
the project risk management or even enterprise risk management depends on them.
So it's not possible to say there is only one way. The preferred way is the
Excel sheet because most people are familiar with it and it's extremely simple
to use, because it's quite straightforward on how to do that. But there are many
approaches on how to document these things in place and also used.

[0:29:13 Researcher 1]
[Question 12a]
Mm hmm. Perfect. Thank you. So, the next block goes a little bit deeper into the
risk assessments and I think you're the perfect candidate to talk about it. So:
Which system modelling types are applied to conduct risk assessment of
machine-learning-based industrial systems?

[0:29:43 I01]
Could you give an example? What do you mean by that?

[0:29:46 Researcher 1]
For example, do you use data flow diagrams, for example, in order to conduct
the, as a foundation for the next risk or threat modelling steps?

[0:30:03 I01]
Typically, what is done is a separation of the entire system into assets, so all
data, all core functionalities of the system. And those are collected usage of,
discussion about the subsequent environment where the product will be used. So
a potential environmental threats that can occur. A separation between data flow
diagrams, also in general network diagrams, so, network overview, system
overviews, all of that, are used. And also component diagrams. And strategy-wise
the main focus are component diagrams, because this is structural-wise, you
would look at components and think about how this particular component could
infringe the protection goal, that is associated with a certain asset within the
application, which can, once again, be data, can be functionality, whatever.

[0:31:21 Researcher 1]
[Question 12b]
OK, so you already answered answered sub-question B, which is about the
perspective view you usually select: Is it system-, attack- or asset-centric? So
based on your previous answer, I presume it is asset-centric usually. Or are
there exceptions?

[0:31:39 I01]
I would rather say it is asset-centric, yes.

[0:31:42 Researcher 1]
Mm hmm. Perfect.
[Question 12c]
Which methodologies are you using during the risk assessment? Is it STRIDE,
PASTA, TARA, or something completely different? A mix of all of them, or ...?

[0:31:59 I01]
It's a [company] mix. No, [company] has a dedicated technology for, or dedicated
strategy for the risk assessment, which as far as I know has also already been
published in an international conference. So I think it's not a big secret and
you can find out about it. It's threat and risk analysis.

[0:32:18 Researcher 1]
Yeah. OK, perfect. Alright.
[Question 12d]
But during the threat modelling/risk assessment, did you apply any curated
attack repositories such as ATLAS MITRE, for example?

[0:32:43 I01]
And what you use as part of the threat and risk analysis is a catalogue of
questions, which might support you in your work. And in these cases, attack
vectors, attack scenarios, catalogues and so on are already included. So,
traditionally everything you get from OWASP, what you get from NIST, and so on,
is already curated into this one questionnaire, which tries to focus, or tries
to support moderators and experts during the threat and risk analysis in order
to identify and, potential attack vectors. So there is a guidance which however
summarizes a lot of them. Which one exactly are included, I would need to look
up because the list is quite long.

[0:33:40 Researcher 1]
Oh, no worries.
[Question 12e]
So just for for protocol and documentation reasons, you already answered
sub-question E with: How often do you see the need to conduct threat
modelling/risk assessment for a machine-learning-based software system and why?
I mean, based on the security life cycle, you'd prefer the continuous because
it's part of your company culture?

[0:34:10 I01]
Yeah.

[0:34:10 Researcher 1]
Right.
[Question 12f]
Then, the next question, and we'll almost at the end: Which challenges occur
during threat modelling or risk assessment of machine learning based industrial
systems?

[0:34:32 I01]
[laughs] Actually, I would suppose one of the biggest challenges is the lack of
transparency, how the models really work and a lot of knowledge that is
interconnected to that. Because I'm talking ... using for example, a web
application, also a lot of business representatives which subsequently defined
the impact of certain attack vectors, are quite aware of the attacks because
everybody knows about that, if some website has been hacked, that's all around
the media. However, with machine learning models, it's rather hard to get
everybody on the same page, knowledge-wise. Because this results in these type
of risk assessments taking a lot of time, because a common knowledge is
necessary across all participants, as otherwise you either might get incorrect
data, non-reliable data, a lack of transparency, potentially people not being
able to contribute at all as they feel lost in the entire process. And so to me,
the biggest challenge right now is the challenge that you, I would suppose this
is a lack of experience, honestly. But I would suppose, most people have with
new technologies due to the fact that they just are not, they just don't know
exactly what the technology's doing, how the technology is doing it and so on.
So they lack the experience with that. And to me that's similar with machine
learning.

[0:36:23 Researcher 1]
Mm hmm. I see. Yeah. So you would say that the main difference of
non-machine-learning-based and machine-learning-based software systems is the
familiarity with the technology probably?

[0:36:36 I01]
I would say that this is actually the biggest challenge, yes.

[0:36:36 Researcher 1]
OK.
[Question 13]
How do you select the appropriate defense mechanisms to protect
machine-learning-based software systems based on your threats modelling or risk
assessment results?

[0:36:56 I01]
So, basically, one of the results you get from our risk assessment is a
definition of risk based on, traditionally, likelihood and impact. While
likelihood is, once again, divided into exploitability and exposure. So the
definition of enterprise risk management according to ISO. And in these cases,
you try to reduce one of the three factors: Impact typically quite hard to
reduce of an attack vector. So you look either at Exposure or Exploitability.
So, ensuring that the respective attack cannot be conducted by everybody,
therefore reducing the exposure or increasing the complexity of the, of
exploiting in that respective attack. In best case, it would be possible to
avoid the attack entirely, which is also often the case that with some, I
wouldn't say refactoring, but some different design decisions, these attacks can
be entirely avoided. But, in most cases you try to affect the exploitability,
therefore the effort that's necessary to conduct the attack and to actually
trigger the threat scenario.

[0:38:31 Researcher 1]
A follow-up question to that, out of curiosity. When you expose a threat and you
need a mitigation technique for it, do you decide to go for a code-based
solution or rather for a design-based solution?

[0:38:56 I01]
[laughs] That depends on what is possible. Traditionally, if there is a change
in configuration or code that can be applied, obviously this is the first choice
because this is effort-wise, extremely simple. However, if certain design flaws
are existent which result in a list of threats or list of risks, in these cases
we typically decide for a design-based mitigation because it's, just the impact
is bigger. It's basically a differentiation: What brings you the biggest bang
for your buck. If it's just one threat you need to solve and it's done with few
lines of code, why not use that approach? Everything else would waste resources.
And if we notice that the issue is something on a deeper level and actually is
due to design choices, then, obviously, a design refactoring is necessary.

[0:39:59 Researcher 1]
So, also another follow-up question because that's an interesting and I was
wondering if you faced that decision already: Machine learning, most companies
are very focused on the performance, so that it performs well. And to some
degree, there are code-based solutions that, for example, to protect machine
learning models against adversarial examples. And that involves adversarial
training, for example, and where you feed the machine learning model with
adversarial examples, so that it is not prone to those examples anymore.
However, that reduces, many times, the performance of the model. Did you occur,
have you faced that kind of decision where you then said, OK, the code-based
solution is is not not possible then we go for the design-based solution?

[0:41:01 I01]
And exactly this answer, or this scenario, I never encountered, so vaccinating
my machine learning was nothing we ever thought about, or ever had the issue
behind it. However, in general what you refer to is just a balancing act between
business goals and security at this point in time. So it depends in the end on
how important the performance of the system is. And to answer that, at some
points, yes, the impact on the final product of a simple solution would be that
significant that a design-based solution was taken and some additional
defense-in-depth mechanisms have been applied which have been, security-wise,
more of an effort but contributed more to the business goals. So answer is yes,
we had that, but not in particular with that scenario.

[0:42:03 Researcher 1]
Mm hmm. OK, interesting. Thank you.
[Question 15]
Which additional procedures had to be implemented after the initial security
evaluation of the planned ML integration in your company before the planned
machine learning integration was executed?

[0:42:29 I01]
So you mean between assessing the model and integrating it?

[0:42:34 Researcher 1]
Yes, if there, so for example, you were planning to integrate a machine learning
component into a software system and then you realize there are certain threats
that can occur and you are countering those threats with additional measurements
or procedures that need to be introduced to the security life cycle, for
example, or additional measurements need to be done like for example set up of a
monitoring tool for the machine learning model or et cetera.

[0:43:09 I01]
Technical or process requirements in that case. That wholly depends on the
product itself and its current state in the life cycle. When you're looking at
project management, you have different phases that exist and it depends on
whether I'm implementing machine learning component into a product that has
already been released and it's just an add-on to something that's already
existent, or whether I'm still in the development phase of that respective
product and it's just something I add during development and it's just part
potentially of a first release or a beta version or something like that. And in
the end, if we're talking about adding these machine learning models, obviously
all, or, nope, that would be actually incorrect, I was just saying that all
technical and process measures must be in place before that can be done, that's
not the case, before the model, the machine learning model can be implemented,
but that's not the case. There are certain circumstances where it might actually
be the case that part of the mitigations or parts of the measures that should
mitigate the risks that are introduced by the machine learning models are
introduced after the machine learning model due to project management decisions,
for example. For example, I don't know, monitoring solution should anyway be in
place and, but this is intended for a later stage, therefore also the monitoring
solution for the machine learning model itself is introduced in the later stage.
But normally, the measures, security measures and the machine learning component
itself are introduced in the same time frame or in the same time. Because often
enough you cannot introduce measures before you introduce the actual risk asset
or risk component. So, typically, identifying them, trying to start with the
mitigations, what can be started and then introducing the model and then
introducing also any measure or mitigations, however, before anything is ever
deployed, or delivered to to customers.

[0:45:39 Researcher 1]
[Question 16]
Mm hmm. OK. Thank you. Then the last four questions will have a different style
of answering. So it's a little bit easy to cool off the jets now after the
interview phase. So the title of the section is "future needs and wishes" and
so basically the instructions for those, yeah, not particularly questions, but
statements which you then give a rating between 1 and 10. So 1 stands for
"insufficiently covered in my company" and 10 "very well covered in my company".

[0:46:25 I01]
Before we start, really important, this is a completely subjective personal
opinion by myself, so I, at this point in time, this is the only a non-objective
answer I can give, if that's fine with you, OK.

[0:46:37 Researcher 1]
OK. Perfect. Yep. Perfect. Yep. It's fine, right? So. First one:
The ability to select fit-for-purpose machine learning components to include in
your software systems is ...?

[0:47:03 I01]
I would propose a 7. So that, 10 was? Could you repeat the scale? I hope I got
it right.

[0:47:12 Researcher 1]
Yes, so 1 is "insufficiently covered in my company" and 10 is "very well covered
in my company".

[0:47:16 I01]
OK. OK, in that case my 7 was correct, yes.

[0:47:23 Researcher 1]
[Question 17]
The ability to evaluate security concerns regarding ML components to include in
your SIPS is ...?

[0:47:28 I01]
An 8.

[0:47:33 Researcher 1]
[Question 18]
Very good. And the ability to maintain the machine learning components in SIPS
is ...

[0:47:45 I01]
"To maintain the machine learning components in" ...?

[0:47:49 Researcher 1]
In your software systems.

[0:47:51 I01]
OK. Probably a 6 or 5. Maintenance is a challenge.

[0:48:02 Researcher 1]
[Question 19]
Last one. So this is now regardless of the scale. It's more regarding other
points that should have been mentioned during the interview. What you thought
this is missing? This is now still part of the official interview that we can
like have in our recording.

[0:48:27 I01]
Actually, I think most of the parts have been quite good. And I actually have
the feeling that most of the questions have also been sufficiently general. So I
like the interview. It was extremely good. To me, it was also well explained
what you were actually talking about, which is rarely the case with scientific
interviews because often enough, you just have a certain scope. No, I think
everything was fine.

[0:48:58 Researcher 1]
Perfect. Alright, thank you for that already. Right then we can I think stop
here because we have like 5-4 minutes left for this scheduled time slots and so
I'll finish up with stop the transcript.
