Time: 2024-04-10, 08:26 UTC
Interviewee: I02
Interviewer: Researcher 1
Duration: 1h 2m 46s

[0:00:32 Researcher 1]
[I02], thank you for your time, first of all. We will start with the first part
of the questions, the pre-interview questionnaire that's regarding your
background. So that we can also put that into the paper, in an anonymous form,
obviously.
[Question 1]
Right, first question: What is your role in the company?

[0:00:51 I02]
I'm part of the cybersecurity department. So, I'm something called like a
cybersecurity specialist, if you want so, or an expert. Currently, and I think
that it's relevant to your topic, I'm handling the GenAI topics, you know, from
a governance point of view, but also trying to implement, let's say, meaningful
controls within our ISMS such that we do things compliant.

[0:01:31 Researcher 1]
[Question 2]
How many years of experience did you collect over a professional career?

[0:01:38 I02]
Over the specific, let's say, from the AI topic or overall?

[0:01:42 Researcher 1]
In your current position, but also in the previous stations, briefly.

[0:01:49 I02]
I mean the previous stations? I'm with information security, or nowadays called
cybersecurity, for 12 years. Totally, since, let's say, ending up with making
all the mistakes myself, it's something like, well, 2006 to now is nearly two
decades. And the AI, GenAI topic is something, or I mean, the last two to three
years, I would say.

[0:02:23 Researcher 1]
[Question 3]
Did you have any experience, training, or education in machine learning security
or adversarial machine learning?

[0:02:32 I02]
Partially. I mean partially during my studies definitely. But that time it
wasn't called machine learning in that topic. And we have, me more guiding than
doing it myself due to my role, but for the other department, yes we have two
modules which we tried to implement for vulnerability management, so yes.
If at school, if you ask for operational, no. If it's going for conceptualize
the things, yes.

[0:03:06 Researcher 1]
OK. Thank you. This were now the pre-interview questions regarding your
background and so on, I mentioned that before. Now we go over to the main
interview questions.
[Question 4]
Could you briefly explain your understanding of the terms "machine learning" and
"security", ideally with an example please?

[0:03:27 I02]
Machine learning? OK, well, machine learning is a specific area of data
analytics where you try to abstract or generalize from a big data set towards a
specific objective. That's, if you ask me, that's what you would say, machine
learning. And it's most of the time, it's kind of a statistical representation
of some specific features you define for yourself. Security it's a easy part,
because you have a system, an IT system has an intended way to work and
everything which steps out of that intended way to work related to
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of something would end up in the
security domain.

[0:04:26 Researcher 1]
[Question 5]
Could you explain your understanding of machine learning security, ideally with
an example?

[0:04:38 I02]
OK, I forgot the example in the last part, I see. [laughs] Well, machine
learning security comes up with, as we just talked about, you know, a model.
When you start with a model, your final product is something which you operate.
Before you start with the operation, somehow you just need to get to that model.
I mean, it's not just there, it doesn't come out of the blue, so someone needs
to start to determine its working data set, which already imposes some kind of
security concerns. Like: Am I allowed to access that data? Is someone accessing
that data and tampering with it? Like, you know, like you have cache poisoning,
you can also do some kind of a data set poisoning. That's the first part where
I would start with security. Then, for instance, the training itself and the
setup of the training itself. Or so, it goes a little bit into the legal area,
but this is intellectual property. And this goes also with cybersecurity when it
comes up to: Can I alter or just steal the information you're creating there?
This is a fight topic, but it's still part of the security domain. That's one of
the things. And then you come up with the operations. I mean a machine learning
model, it's not just there because it is there. You just want to achieve some
outcome with it and you have an operational environment. Basically, first of
all, guarding that achievement, like, let's, like, take the instance where I had
a, you know, vulnerability management predicting how long a vulnerability will
take until it gets remediated. Then I would love to have that model exactly
giving me the output for that thing without someone, you know, interfering with
the answers either to change the data, to make it not answering or the like, but
I get really what I was expecting from the model. This is quite obvious, which
is the security domain. And then we have another part which goes more into a
more generic part because a model is usually embedded in an environment. And
that environment means: How do I run the model? Can I tweak it so that it does
different things? Does it what we want currently? You know, we have introduced
new security holes into that environment? Might be one of the things like:
Fetching data from the outside which I can't control, transferring data. But it
can also have, this goes a little bit the into the part of, let's say,
availability: Can I DOS that thing where it now has security-relevant functions?
Think about an automated, you know, network monitoring system. If that thing
goes down and for, whatever reason, someone comes to the conclusion that if that
monitoring system goes down, you just need to shut off any network connection.
This can have a big impact. So, this is what I'm talking about with the
environment, that means DOS is a problem. And there's also one of the things
which I call the financial DOS, is auto-scaling. Usually machine learning model,
it depends, but if you look up at the last years, the development of machine
learning models needs quite some decent computing power. And if you have
something like auto-scaling, then you definitely end up in financial loss
because if you just do that blindly, then yeah, Bitcoin mining is, I guess,
one of the things you heard about. And, I think I've got the last [laughs], or
let's put it that way: I mean you can see that there are a lot of things you can
attach to security all along. And actually, for me a machine learning model is
still IT.

[0:08:16 Researcher 1]
Alright, thank you. So, just for clarification the questions I asked you right
now, it's not a quiz or anything. It's to see if we are on the same page. Right.
[Question 6]
Next question: Which security goals are announced by your company's management?
To be more precise, how does your organization support machine learning
security?

[0:09:03 I02]
That's a difficult point to answer because this goes a little bit also into the,
let's say, confidential part. But, as you know [company], I mean our aspiration
is definitely that we do things securely and compliant. And we deliver the
things on an industrial grade, so that's the point of [company], that we try to
support exactly: You get a solution or we apply AI or machine learning in a
secure manner that delivers what you expect in a cost-effective way and we do
follow rules and regulations, and also do that in an ethical manner.

[0:09:47 Researcher 1]
[Question 7]
For the next question, I'll give you a definition and some context for a
specific term I'm using. It's called Software-Intensive Products and Services,
short "SIPS". And those software systems are fulfilling specific requirements:
So they're large and complex; they're subject to numerous engineering practices;
they are part of a dynamic environment. So one example would be the Spotify app,
for example. And an example for not such a system would be a toy example that
was specifically implemented for an experiment, that we've done some tests on it
and so on and so forth, so that is called SIPS. So that you know if that term,
when I mention that term. The question, with this context: Why do you consider
security aspects of machine learning components in your SIPS? For example,
during your last project.

[0:11:14 I02]
"Why"? This is an odd question. [laughs] I mean, I'm working with the
cybersecurity department, OK? So, our main goal is exactly securing that stuff.
There's, I mean, this is our real task, vision, mission goal, call it like you
want to. We just need to look at those things and make the things secure and,
maybe because we talk about SIPS, the most important thing is to try to reach a
defense-in-depth, OK? So, it's not just saying, "OK, I've got a big block and
I'm taking care of the periphery all along". If you want to make something
secure, you start with the basics, with the building blocks of it.

[0:11:43 Researcher 1]
[Question 8]
Alright. What machine learning models are applied in your machine learning
intensive software systems?

[0:12:10 I02]
This is one of the questions, even if I would know all of them, I won't be
allowed to talk about. You know, that's, once again, confidential part. But I
can tell you being, you know, in the different parts, I mean [company] is quite
big. So, we have self-developed stuff. We have, you know, open-licensed models.
So, that there's kind of a plethora of things we're using there. For instance,
that's one of the known things, if you think about it overall [company], yes, we
do also make use of the cognitive services at Microsoft and also the ones at
Azure.

[0:12:54 Researcher 1]
Maybe ... Thank you for the answer, but can you, maybe, say what kind of models
are used? Is it Generative AI, for example. Or is it a mix of a lot of them ...?

[0:13:12 I02]
Actually, it is a very broad mix of everything, if you want so. So, yes,
generative AI is one of the new things. But [company] is in the field for, I
think, decades and we have already something called industrial-grade AI where
you have machine learning models based on simple things, like, you know,
Bayesian filters. We have e-mail filtering. It is as simple as that. But we have
also, when I'm looking at the cybersecurity, self-developed models all along
threat detection, you know, and these are not based on generative AI. These are,
I mean, classical feature model and feature generation. Then you have that the
machine learning all around you select the right model to it. Or you have
multi-staged approach, to be honest, then you go for the next priority, have the
model and apply it and that goes for lots of different things. So, I tend to
say: Search for something, you will find it here. [laughs]

[0:14:24 Researcher 1]
[Question 9]
Right, thank you. Which role does the security of your machine learning models
play for the overall security of the respective system you are inspecting?

[0:14:38 I02]
It depends. But that's one of the most difficult questions because, you know, it
depends on what you're using it for. Actually, now this is [company]-specific
thing you might know: We have applications and they have some kind of a business
need. And what we do, this is also nothing very very, let's see, confidential to
it, is: We definitely define the use case and go for a business impact analysis
to define, let's say, what is it in there. And depending on that component and
the criticality of what we're looking there, you know, different measures are
derived and also the different rule sets and work on it, okay?

[0:15:25 Researcher 1]
[Question 10]
So for the next question, I will give you again some contexts because these
terms might be a bit confusing, but I will give my best to explain as well as
possible. So we're looking at two scenarios. Scenario 1: Is a system where a
machine learning component is implemented, and, so it is already incorporated in
the software system you're looking at. And scenario 2: Is a software system and
the plan is to integrate a machine learning model or a component into that
respective system. So we're calling that the planned machine learning
integration, for example, right? So question 10 is: What is the difference in
security aspects assessment of already implemented machine-learning-intensive
software systems and a planned machine learning integration into a software
system?

[0:16:32 I02]
Tough question. The first part is, I mean, if you look at your software system,
what you have in there, it depends a little bit on its modularity. If it's
totally opaque, then you would treat it like a software like it is. Still with
having in mind that for AI or for machine learning topics you have additional,
let's say, threats to it which you just need to evaluate.

[0:17:02 I02]
The integration to a new system is one thing which you always need to go, to
see, you know, how do you change, let's say, that software itself. I mean, if
you do it correctly modular, then there is not too much changes to that part,
but you need to adapt the security along, like, it's a new component and
everything, once again, the defense-in-depth idea is, you try to integrate it
that thing, the component itself is secure enough to work altogether, OK? Maybe
one thing, which we are on the way to it, so we are far not there, but at
[company], and this is one of the things we try, is to incorporate Zero Trust in
nearly everything. That means, whenever we use something and integrate it, if
it's just an API to it, you know, then that means you see that as a custom
component like an own application, OK? Which implies that you just need to go
through all the things and think about how to secure that. If you talk about
machine learning models which are easily embeddable in some kind of software,
you know, like a monolithic block, if you want so, that means you just need to
go there and look at the whole application and the interaction to it. So that
would be, you know, you add those things and would address it like it was an own
application. Does that make sense to you?

[0:18:39 Researcher 1]
Yes! Now are we going to switch over to the risk assessment part.
[Question 11]
So, the question is: How do you conduct risk assessment of
machine-learning-intensive software systems, for example, in your last project?
[Question 11a]
And to be more specific: How relevant was the familiarity with machine learning
security in the domain or system under consideration before conducting risk
assessments of the machine-learning-intensive software system?

[0:19:21 I02]
That's one of the things I can tell you that I didn't do too much of my own risk
assessments there, so that's that. I can tell you that the general approach to
that thing and what we see, at least with the GenAI upcoming stuff. So, we're
currently building that thing up. But generally, the risk assessment follows a
threat modeling, you know, model where you just describe the threats to an
application or to the data you're having there, and define, you know ...

[0:19:56 Researcher 1]
One second. So, the question refers to, maybe it's too long, the familiarity
with machine learning security and how relevant it was during the risk
assessment?

[0:20:14 I02]
I can tell you that this is one of the biggest problems we have there, because
with the risk assessments, usually, they're not made by professional guys, which
sometimes leads to deviating, you know, risk assessment results. So, I can tell
you that, most of the time, it's not done by machine learning experts, which
ends up sometimes in weird results. Let's call it that way, OK?

[0:20:44 Researcher 1]
[Question 11ai]
Right. And which roles are involved in that process?

[0:20:51 I02]
Usually, I mean in the processes you have there, we have experts and more
generalists going through the things, and their role is to assess, based on
standard best practices all along IT security, to evaluate that part, which ...

[0:21:10 Researcher 1]
And how ... pardon. Please!

[0:20:13 I02]
OK. Which, depending on their personal knowledge, and this is one of the things
we definitely need to change, I can tell you right that, this was one of the
things we're working ... we're just going to be a little bit more standardized
that we just need to train people more and more in exactly those topics to
understand better what it is all about.

[0:21:35 Researcher 1]
[Question 11aii]
How do those roles interact with each other?

[0:21:45 I02]
I mean, we have standard processes here. We have, for each and everything, we
have quite a lengthy process which follows a clear point and, maybe also for
making you aware, we have, you know, products and solutions, and we have
internal services and these are two different trails to follow up on. What was
product and solutions that there's the obligation, I mean once again, [company]
is really an industrial grade and we have even, you know, that trustworthy AI
label where you have clear rules to go through and say, "OK, I've got this, I
document this, I could document this". This is done by, if you want so, on
behalf of the solution owner, for our customers. And internally, the official
solution owner would be, somehow, you know, [company], but we have rules in
here, and those guys need to provide exactly that information, with a
criticality. They are similar, but they are still different. But in the end,
there's a clear metric which say "OK, the business owner is accountable and he
needs to delve into those things and drag the right people into the topics, that
he can answer that part".

[0:22:51 Researcher 1]
[Question 11b]
How did you document the risk assessment results?

[0:23:05 I02]
Very formal. [laughs] It is really meant like that, at least for the product and
solutions, there is a kind of a lengthy process. Sometimes it is Excel,
sometimes it's an application, but it is really formal. But in the end, before
you, we have project milestones, you need to have it in a formal way where what
it tells you, "OK, this is the threat, this is the risk. This is my assessment.
These are the mitigations".

[0:23:37 Researcher 1]
[Question 12]
On question 12: How do you generally conduct risk assessments? And there is a
small kicker to that question.
[Question 12a]
Which system modeling types are applied to conduct a risk assessment of a
machine-learning-intensive software system?

[0:23:58 I02]
What do you mean by "system types"?

[0:24:03 Researcher 1]
Which system modeling type? So, what kind of modelling of a system do you use as
a foundation to conduct the risk, the threat modeling, or the risk assessment?

[0:24:17 I02]
I wouldn't say we have a system modeling type, if you want so. I mean, we did
decompose the, as I just said, I mean, we did decompose the things and their
interfaces and their functionalities and their phases you have in there and
address that, the different topic, if applicable. But there is no ...

[0:24:37 Researcher 1]
OK, maybe an example. Do you use, for example, data flow diagrams or any sort of
diagram to illustrate the system, to have a foundation to conduct threat
modeling on that system, to illustrate the threats better?

[0:24:56 I02]
It is depending on the solution itself. That's not, you know, mandated nor
normalized or canonical there. But yes, in the end, you end up, most of the
time, with some kind of a systems overview with their interfaces, in one case.
And in the other case, it depends a little bit on the solution itself, how you
document, you know, what you're looking at. Sometimes you have a data flow,
sometimes ... But most of the time, you have a really system [overview], so if
you say, "OK, these are the systems; this is the input; this is the output; this
is how they connect to each other".

[0:25:31 Researcher 1]
Mm hmm. But you have some sort of modeling, right? How was it in your last
project that involved machine learning?

[0:25:44 I02]
Well, we don't have dataflow models, so it is exactly what I just telling you, I
was. If you want so, you look at the system components, what are there, OK? But
it's not, it's very very important that, this is what I was just emphasizing, we
don't have a always canonical way to do that. Because we try to focus on the
specific solution. So, yes, you start usually with: What are the network
diagrams? What are your interfaces? What are the users to that thing? Who can
access what? What are, let's say, the different parts? Usually you always
assess, you know, where are the inputs to something, OK? What are the threats?
Because you have two types of threats. Sometimes they're related to input or to
the processing. Sometimes, you have external threats, which are, if you want so,
by chance or regulatory things, which you add to that part. But this is a
structured process, first of all, of looking at the exact part, and then to
derive that. That's why we have the experts for those things, OK? So, there's
someone on the other side collecting with you the documentation and diving into
the documentation to be able to say, "OK, I see this, this, and this". And they
create, in the end, for the internal stuff, they create what we call a
protection concept. For the external part, they create a risk analysis, which is
very formal in the things they do. But they don't share that with the outside,
obviously. But it is with them to document and to put it in the product, you
know, description.

[0:27:26 Researcher 1]
Right. But you don't have a standardized process, a standardized process?

[0:27:31 I02]
No.

[0:27:31 Researcher 1]
If, for example, you have generative AI, then we use, for example, system
modeling type X ...

[0:27:38 I02]
No.

[0:27:38 Researcher 1]
and if it is a different kind of AI, then we use this. Or does it vary from case
to case, then?

[0:27:43 I02]
Yep, it depends from case to case, maybe also one or ... it's maybe also because
of our size and the different way how people approach that part? What we
definitely try is to create what we call building blocks, OK? So, you see
patterns of solutions. I mean, as you just mentioned, generative AI: 90% of the
things we're looking at in there are RAG chatbots. That means, you end up with
always the same structure to it. So, you can very fast start to abstract and
say, "OK, I'm interested exactly in those components on that part. And is there
anything else you just forgot about?" But this is more like building blocks and
introducing, like you do right now, you know, an expert interview trying to find
out, "OK, what is there? Did you forget something going through real services,
real interfaces?" This is where you mix up, let's say, machines with the
knowledge of experts.

[0:28:48 Researcher 1]
[Question 12b]
Which perspective do you select? Is it system-, attacker-, or asset-centric?

[0:29:00 I02]
"System"? What's the difference between a system and an asset, first of all? For
me, it's kind of same. [laughs]

[0:29:09 Researcher 1]
Well, system is like if you look at the entirety. And the asset is really
focusing on, for example, the data set which covers the most important part and
you don't care about the rest of the parts, for example. So, if you ...

[0:29:26 I02]
OK. Then I can tell you, I would say this is a combination of all the three. So,
it starts always with a system. But, you know, the parts themselves, once again,
you remember: defense-in-depth. You always start with a big picture and also
with a user-centric, if you want so, because it's always like the interfaces and
users are not only persons. For us, a user can be also another machine or
another system, that's basically ... And we try to incorporate all these three
things because they are important for our threat modeling.

[0:30:05 Researcher 1]
[Question 12c]
Thank you. Which methodologies do you choose? Is it STRIDE, PASTA, TARA, or a
combination of them, or something completely different?

[0:30:16 I02]
[company]-proprietary. [laughs]

[0:30:20 Researcher 1]
Alright. Why are you not using just one of those proposed methodologies?

[0:30:34 I02]
Yeah, you're getting me into trouble. [laughs] Now, but basically, one of the
things which you can see, and I guess, that's important to understand for every
methodology we see, there is an overlap over the things we do. At the same time,
it sometimes doesn't really fit, OK? So, it depends. When there are
methodologies out there which we would say, OK, the most of the time, you know,
that Pareto principle, it fits our needs very well, then, usually, we tend to
apply those standard methods. If we see that it doesn't fit, I mean, if you have
a majority where you just need to adapt or you, you're lacking the possibilities
to follow also with our internal regulations, then you're simply not using them.
It doesn't make sense to use a tool which is not fitting your needs.

[0:31:33 Researcher 1]
[Question 12d]
Alright, thank you. During the threat modelling risk or risk assessment, did you
apply any curated attack repositories such as ATLAS MITRE, for example?

[0:31:50 I02]
Yes. I would, I mean, curated, we have internal curated stuff. We also, I mean,
as you was just talking about MITRE and the like, we even contribute to those
bodies and we have a clear exchange to the outside. Once again, it depends a
little bit what are you looking at and how much knowledge is also externally
available or not. For the GenAI, this is one of the things I'm currently working
on, the ATLAS MITRE is nice. Still, it's at some points too coarse and some
other points too detailed for the necessities we currently see. Just to give you
an idea, I mean about the ATLAS MITRE is great to have an overview, but it fits
more on a playbook attack pattern and less to a threat modelling which might
come up, I think about legal stuff. I mean intellectual property and copyright
issues, which you definitely have with GenAI, is simply not modelled in there.

[0:32:53 Researcher 1]
Okay? Thank you for the explanation, because I was a bit confused. You said "too
coarse" or "too detailed", right? So that's literally both ends of the spectrum.
Could you ...

[0:33:06 I02]
Yeah, it is, basically. I mean that's always when you look at the thing. Just to
give you an idea, let's take a CVSS standard, OK? If you look at the CVSS
standard, and if you just look at the base metrics for vulnerability management,
it's a perfect thing to describe that, for technical people to understand what
the problem is. At the same time, that's too coarse. Why it's too coarse?
Because it doesn't only matter the technical part, it's always also about your
environment, OK? At the same time, when you try to implement something like the
environmental score and the temporal score, you end up sometimes with questions
that are too detailed or not applicable for your thing. We have a risk
methodology here, you know with rating, criticality of applications. Sometimes
you can just map that with high, medium, low. Sometimes it's that nitty-gritty
that you say "OK, but that's nice, but I simply can't apply that. This is
information I would need to, first of all, artificially generate to fulfil that
part." This is exactly when you look at the MITRE. Yeah, at some point of time,
you know, you go with specific ways how to have a playbook to attack a model.
Sometimes I'm just sitting in there and say, "OK guys, I mean prompt injections
are a problem. We can talk about different prompt injections, because you just
need to be aware of. But do what I really need to distinguish those for a
playbook?" Detection-wise: Yes. But for playbook: Not, you know? And this is
where I'm ending up with why I'm saying, "OK, some of the things I see too
coarse, some of the things I see too detailed." But actually also one of the
questions, maybe for you, that this is always, this is academia: You ask two
people, you get three different models to it. And so everybody would say the
same thing of his model.

[0:35:07 Researcher 1]
[Question 12e]
Right. How often do you see the need to conduct threat modeling/risk assessment
of an machine-learning-intensive software system and why?

[0:35:20 I02]
OK, that's a very easy one to answer. [laughs] So, basically each and every time
you majorly change the component itself, OK? From introduction, yes, obviously,
because you did't know anything before you didn't had it before. But also on
major changes when you really, you know, if you are just changing certificates,
it's standard IT, if you notably or significantly change the way that thing
interacts, you definitely need to do that risk assessment. That's why these are,
let's say, the major things. And, secondly, on a regular basis. Regular basis is
a little bit difficult to define, because it depends a little bit also on your
use case. But from a specific point of view, I mean with cybersecurity, the
whole world tends to what we call, you know, continuous monitoring. I know this
is not really achievable, because you always have sampling times. But in the
end, monitoring should be all the time and trying to detect if there's
something. This splits a little bit up or, let's say, in a cybersecurity domain,
you always have something protective, which ends up a little bit with a threat
modeling and you have, you know, the detection, which is what you do during
operations. And they overlap, and sometimes not.

[0:37:20 Researcher 1]
This question referred to the idea, for example, GenAI and large language models
there are new attacks published, revealed, and so on, like on a very frequent
basis. Therefore, I was asking that question. So would you say one-time or
continuous [threat] modeling, then?

[0:37:25 I02]
It's a kind of micro-batch continuous monitoring. [laughs] The main point is ...
But this is let's say how we work and what you talk about the major, you know,
security environment means: We can try to describe classes of things, but it
doesn't mean that you just need to describe the exact instance of it. So, we try
to generalize as much as possible that, you know: What is the threat model and
a general point of view? You just need to describe it for yourself. Getting back
to the, let's say, ever-increasing attack vectors, this is actually nothing new
for machine learning models than to the other software. If you look at CVEs,
which are I think more than 100,000 a year, this is exactly what you just need
to do. You need to see: Where am I? Do I have protective measures already that
try to address classes, not specific instances? This is one other thing. And the
second part, it's threat and vulnerability management where you actually really
react on those things.

[0:38:30 Researcher 1]
OK, so you would say on a regular basis to conduct the threat modeling part?

[0:38:36 I02]
Yes.

[0:38:36 I02]
Unless there is some specific trigger or event that ...

[0:38:40 I02]
Yes.

[0:38:40 Researcher 1]
... that forces you to do like a separate or emergency threat on like ...?

[0:38:45 I02]
Exactly.

[0:38:46 Researcher 1]
[Question 12f]
OK, thank you. Which challenges occur during threat modeling/risk assessment of
machine-learning-intensive software systems?
[Question 12fi]
And to be maybe more specific: What is the main difference between machine
learning systems and non-machine learning systems?

[0:39:12 I02]
The biggest problem to the thing is they introduce a different set of problems.
I mean, machine learning usually doesn't, just to give you a high point what
I see, is in the understanding of the people doing the threat modelling. Why is
that? If you look at IT systems, I can develop easily code and test it with
artificial data and go for the things and try to create a solution which I can
then deploy, OK? That's an easy part. With machine learning models, their
development stage is not on artificial data anymore. You can do a little bit of
exploration and understanding, but if it comes for you to develop that machine
learning model, the key to the machine learning model is the abstraction of real
data. Which means you step out of that development mode, which sometimes does
not understand, not understood by the people. Secondly, machine learning,
attacks against machine learning weren't that prominent. That means, people are
sometimes not aware of the implications of that. If you want, so it's still
something esoteric still there. If you think about adversarial training, they
are already quite good papers, but these are still in the domain of some weird
researchers, but not in the common sense or body of knowledge of people, which
makes it hard for the people to understand the part. And last but not least,
it's always like with each and everything you try to model: If you end up with
too many modelling topics or security topics, people tend to get overwhelmed and
just cut corners. Unfortunately, that is.

[0:41:10 Researcher 1]
[Question 13]
Good transition, adversarial training. Cause the next question: How do you ...
Because the next question refers to defense mechanisms. How do you select the
appropriate defense mechanisms to protect machine-learning-intensive systems
based on your threat modeling or risk assessment results?

[0:41:32 I02]
Hmm. That's currently in the works. [laughs]

[0:41:38 Researcher 1]
OK. Can you ...?

[0:41:41 I02]
I mean, OK, let's put it quite simple. If you end up with, let's say, things
which you can solve with traditional IT methods. You know, like, secure data,
check your data before you use it, and the like. So, when you have those
traditional methods of evaluation, this is what we give people to think of and
to comply with, wih a rule set. Now getting back to the things which are new or
where we don't have existing solutions or best practices: Take the GenAI stuff.
How to prevent prompt injection? There's a simple answer: I don't have a clue
yet. So, there are people coming all along with solutions, proposals trying to
saying rate limiting. We tried to find ways, maybe, to mitigate some of the
topics. But this requires quite a lot of work, and as the rest of the world,
when I'm getting to the GenAI part, we're trying to find solutions to nothing.
I can't tell you: If you have this, then use that. But it's more like: If you
have this, you have that risk. Is that an acceptable risk for you, or how do you
get there? We always apply ... that's why I initially said, we do that impact
analysis for ourselves, so, doing the criticality rating to it. And depending on
the criticality rating, we also go further and say, "OK, if that's not critical,
then maybe it does need not some kind of a level of protection if you would use
something which is very critical." Then, most probably, you would start to
ring-fence things, to create, you know, lots of things all around, at least to
mitigate the exploitability.

[0:43:39 Researcher 1]
So, maybe an example. So you already said the idea is that we found now threats
that is based on the machine learning model that is applied now in the product,
in the software. And then, ok, this is the threat. What are we going to do about
it? What is then the procedure? So, you say there is no standardized procedure,
but what do you do then?

[0:44:02 I02]
There is a meta-process, if you want so, that this is what I would try to
explain. I mean, first of all you have a threat. The first thing for a threat is
to evaluate in your environment, is that threat imminent for me or not? So, does
it make sense in my environment and under which circumstances? This is basically
what you usually do with threat modeling. So you think about likelihood,
exploitability, and impact. This is the first thing. The second part that comes
with the criticality of it, okay? So that this is the first part we just
evaluate, OK, how relevant and how severe is that for me. This is a-meta
process. It is a little bit formalized but not perfectly because you just need
to have subject matter expertise for the topics you're looking at. At the same
time, on the other side, we create a rating for the things you're doing there.
For instance, just to give you an idea, if you create, you know, an insulin pump
for at [company part], just, by the way, not [company] anymore, just to give you
an idea, there's a good, there is a totally different criticality to it if we
would create, you know, some kind of a light detector, OK? Which might try to
take into account date, times, and intensity of whatsoever. So, you see already
the criticality to it is very very important and derived from, let's say, the
impact you see there and the criticality of the product you're going there. This
is, first of all, describing your risk profile, OK? And based on that thing, you
just need to think about what are compensating controls? Let's stay on that
meta-level, where you say, OK, I can compensate to some level that I lower the
risk of impact or likelihood, OK? When I say, OK, it can still happen, but I'm
confident, you know, I pushed a bar that high that it's very unlikely to happen.
That's one of the ways to address the risk, which would be to say, yeah,
these are the controls to implement.

[0:46:11 I02]
There are sometimes also hard requirements coming from internal and external
regulations telling you just need to implement XYZ. Like, doing the part. And
there might be even the point where I say, OK, it's nice that you want to do it,
but no. This is also not very often, but there is an outcome to that thing, when
you say taking that insulin pump, to stay in that example, it's not now machine
learning, but putting, you know, the TELNET interface of an insulin pump to the
Internet, it's a clear No. I mean, you don't need to talk about that. It's very,
very clear. That means the thing that needs to be done on network access needs
to be facilitated. If there's no user management and you just need to confine it
into a segregated network which only has a jump host. So, but, these are exactly
the compensating controls.

[0:47:01 I02]
And this is no different to machine learning, honestly speaking. I mean, this is
the same thing when you think about it. Because we've started with that
adversarial training, for instance, yeah, you just need to go there, and you
just need to describe your model and try to find out, you know, in which
boundaries it is. And say, "OK, this is that far if I deploy that way, I
restrict access to it, I'm putting all the things in there, and I can just go
there and say you have still got that thing" and say, "OK, addressed or limited
point". And in the end, and this is now exactly what I was talking about
criticality, the business needs to decide this is a risk we can accept. Because
there's nothing you do without risk. That's also one of the things which are
quite crucial to understand. Whatever you do, it has a risk.

[0:47:52 Researcher 1]
[Question 14]
So the idea of the study is to find meta-steps that a company that decides to
implement machine learning into their software systems and what should they do,
right? So, they went through the whole threat modeling part. They identified the
threats. They gave it a score, it's critical, and now, the security expert needs
to find mitigations for it, right? So, you are saying that you need to find a
solution kind of yourself?

[0:48:42 I02]
Yes and No. That's a careful part. I mean, we're not reinventing the wheel. They
have different ways. Sometimes you have solutions out in the field, you know.
But let's shortly step a little bit back because we have, in our traditional IT,
it's easier to explain, OK? It depends a little bit where we are, but if you
think of web application, firewall is a solution or a solution concept you have
there. You can go there and buy something and put it in there. You don't need to
reinvent the wheel. Someone thought about that part, and it's a well-known
concept how to restrict, let's say, attacks to it, on API level, or sometimes
even on, you know, application layer, OK? It is as simple as that. It's not
perfect. You still have, you know, some ways to bypass it, but it is a way to
secure it. That means, you know, well-known concepts and apply to that thing and
say, OK, I know already of the effectiveness and can tell you, OK, the
likelihood is going to be less.

[0:49:42 I02]
Sometimes, getting back to a prompt injection, are there any known ways to do
it? Currently, not really. So, they are coming up, you know, providers and
solutions to do that. You see some scientifical papers which propose some
different things, but in the end, there's no solution or no concept yet known
how to prevent it. That ends up with, OK, we just need a way to solve that
problem somehow. And even if the mitigation means, OK, give it just to only
people you know and monitor, you know, the behavior of that thing, search for,
you know, omit or add the rules or change rules, you know, and the prompts to at
least be able to detect that stuff, OK? That would be very clumsy way to do it.
It's still better than not doing anything, but you know, you see, then we just
need to find a solution to it. And this is exactly where the security expert
needs to also understand, you know, the environment. Sometimes it's just saying,
OK, I know that, put it in there, let the people configure it, we're going
through the configuration and check. So it's really that variety.

[0:51:01 Researcher 1]
[Question 15]
Which additional procedures had to be implemented after the initial security
evaluation of the planned machine learning integration in your company before
the planned ML integration was executed?

[0:51:28 I02]
[laughs] Also, I'm talking now about the playbook. But usually, you need that,
what we call a protection concept or the risk assessment being fulfilled and
acknowledged by the owners, so the ones who are really also accountable for what
they're doing, before deploying that into productive mode. This is now
process-wise clear. So, the idea is: You can do whatever you want to, but you
just need to follow the rules and have a clear description of your risk profile
and how you address that, and that you definitely accept the risks there, not
saying, you know, I have known about that part, but before going live and
going live means stepping out of that development mode and making it available
either to customers or to the internal folks in a productive way.

[0:52:20 Researcher 1]
But there are no specific or machine learning-centered procedures needed to be
introduced to the certain life cycle of the software system?

[0:52:36 I02]
Basically, and that's maybe one of the things which is very special, we try to
integrate that into the overall processes. So, the idea if you build up, you
know, a solution somehow, that solution needs to follow already, you know, the
existing processes we have there, which are not clarifying only machine learning
stuff, but there is legal, there is cyber-security, there are a lot of things,
you know, they just need to follow. Those processes are somehow streamlined to
support our, you know, business owners but also the developers of any solution,
guide them through as best as possible, you know, through the different
requirements. That means we don't add additional things in terms of additional
steps to it, but yes, there are additional, let's see, machine learning
specifics in there. For instance, when we look at the GenAI, this is exactly
what we're working on, to increase the processes with additional risk model
threats, you know, and also questions to guide them already in that process
through the things. Does that make sense to you?

[0:53:44 Researcher 1]
It makes sense. However, since machine learning and machine learning security
are still are new topic, right, so you don't have proper rules, requirements, or
regulations for it. So, as an example: You want to implement a machine learning
component into your software system. And there is one point, for example, the
attempts of data poisoning, for example, or statistical drift, for example,
right? There you need to monitor carefully the input to the machine learning
model to see if there is a statistical drift or to detect adversarial examples,
for example. So, before you introduce a machine learning component into your
software system, you need to do the monitoring, for example.

[0:54:49 I02]
So, I, now you're hitting exactly the way why we do that on a use-case basis. So
think about a machine learning model which has an input not only for inference,
but also for changing the model itself, right? This is what you just described.
If you're looking at something like, that is exactly where you start with a
threat modelling and ask of the interfaces and ask what's happening with the
thing, OK? If your input is just, you know, take the e-mail, because Bayesian
filters we have forever, take the e-mail and get a score out of it, the risk
profile looks totally different. You might need to think about, you know, that
there's a jailbreak in that thing, if you want so, you know, finding IT
vulnerabilities, but there's no problem to it. One point.

[0:55:35 I02]
If you come up with the point that you say, OK, you have inputs to that thing
which are getting processed now to adapt your filters, your spam filters, this
is a totally different part because you just need to think at least and handle
and state, OK, what do I need to take care of that input validation? From a
cybersecurity point of view this is exactly what we talk about: Input
validation, and if you can't input-validate, what are the measures to detect
those things or at least to have a kill switch to it? But this is exactly where
you get into the details of that component and user thingy. Which you already
see, I'm still able to drill it down back to the IT environment because it is
basically similar. I mean Bayesian filters is not, you can categorize it, if you
want so, as machine learning, but basically, you know, we have that already in
place so that there's nothing new to it. Yes, it gets difficult with the new
models or when we have multimodal things. Which we currently, I mean, if you
talk about GenAI and self-adapting [AI], that's simply a new environment, which,
usually, people ask, how should I do that? And currently, my answer is, honestly
speaking, I don't have a clue yet. [laughs]

[0:57:02 I02]
I mean, I guess you follow, you know, also the academia and also the attacks on
that part, if you look at that adversarial training, you know, at the Black Hat
last year was simply awesome. It's great that, you know, that you can do
something like that, or you know, even a really secluded chatbot which gets with
the masking and ASCII arts that it is simply awesome how you can circumvent that
part. Find a way how to prevent it: I don't know any. If you know some, maybe
you want to start with us, you know? [laughs]

[0:57:45 Researcher 1]
[Question 16]
We will talk about it a little after the interview. "Future needs and wishes" is
the title of the last section and there are instructions for the next part of
the interview: So, you will answer the following questions based on a scale. 1
means "this is insufficiently covered in my company", and 10 means "it's very
well covered in my company". So, the ability to select fit-for-purpose machine
learning components to include in our software systems is ...?

[0:58:26 I02]
Can you repeat that? Slowly.

[0:58:34 Researcher 1]
The ability to select fit-for-purpose machine learning components to include in
your software systems is ...

[0:58:49 I02]
[laughs] 1 to 10, I would say. No, but I selecting and creating one of the
things, that's exactly what we do there is so. Most of the time I would go over
something 5, 6, 7 somewhere all around that. It's a little bit difficult to
really go for a real number, but this is actually our business, you know.

[0:59:11 Researcher 1]
Mm hmm, so would you say 6?

[0:59:13 I02]
Yeah, let's put a 6 there. Yes.

[0:59:17 Researcher 1]
[Question 17]
The ability to evaluate security concerns machine learning components to include
in your software system ...?

[0:59:27 I02]
At the present, I would go for a 2 to a 3.

[0:59:33 Researcher 1]
[Question 18]
The ability to maintain the machine learning components in our software system
...?

[0:59:41 I02]
That's a total business decision. That's that. I can't answer that thing.

[0:59:51 Researcher 1]
So, the ability to maintain the machine learning components in software systems
is not answerable?

[0:59:59 I02]
Not really, no. I mean you can put everything in there from none because they
just bought it to really self-trained with selling that as a [company] own
product. Then I would put a 10 there. So, there is no slider.

[1:00:16 Researcher 1]
[Question 19]
OK, thank you. Right, last question.
Any other points that should have been asked or mentioned during this interview?

[1:00:28 I02]
[laughs] I love that one. Actually, I would need to know exactly what you're up
to tell you that thing.

[1:00:40 Researcher 1]
Right. So the, the idea is to extract the state of practice. So, what are
companies doing so far to assess the security of machine learning components?
How to react to them, so decide which kind of defense mechanisms should they
use, so that with the results of the study, one can have like some sort of
guideline to follow in order to reapply it if they're like completely new to the
security assessment of machine learning components.

[1:01:18 I02]
I mean you ask that kind of sideways, but the involvement in, let's say,
standardization bodies, okay, certification standardization bodies is, I guess,
because the state of practice comes also with it, if you have a company that
just says OK, let's wait for something, that's OK. If you see people trying to
drive standardization, I mean, I know this can be also two-sided sword but
standardizing things and creating, let's say, some kind of a certification label
like you had, for instance, with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth stuff. It's very, very
important to understand which kind of maturity level you are, you know. I mean,
this is more or less the acknowledgment, OK, am I aware that there is something
I just need to do and how much I'm investing on that thing?

[1:02:16 Researcher 1]
Thank you. Anything else?

[1:02:20 I02]
No.

[1:02:22 Researcher 1]
OK. Thank you. Thank you for your time and your input. Then I'll stop the
recording.
